mew chiller.

ananaanaa
LMA NO

i
Lie

Installation, Operation & Maintenance Manual
for MCW Chillers Using the

DDC — Digital Diagnostic Control

MARINE AIR SYSTEMS ©

AUIRRRRR

8/04 L-2164
PREFACE

Congratulations on the purchase of your air conditioning chilled water system. No matter which of the
following features was the reason you purchased this chilled water system, we are sure it will meet
your needs and will give you many years of efficient and trouble free use.

The chiller® series of modular chilled water systems are designed for boat applications starting at
approximately 40 foot in length. They are available in capacities from 24,000 to 600,000 BTU’s and
voltages of 208, 230, and 460 volt 60 hertz and 220 or 380 volt 50 hertz, single or three phase. These
systems can provide ideal solutions for problems of space requirements, amperage consumption and
weight for both new boat and retrofit applications and are designed for marine applications
incorporating the following features:

Spiral fluted cupronickel condenser coil for maximum heat transfer

Compressors offering reduced amperage draw, up to 25% less than conventional units
Stainless steel brazed plate chilled water heat exchangers

Remote mountable electrical box

Pre-charged and pre-wired systems for easy field connections

Charge Guard® protection to insure refrigerant integrity during handling and installation
Light weight aluminum construction for corrosion protection

Control circuit provides multiple fail-safes for system protection

This manual is intended to provide the information necessary to ensure proper operation and
maintenance of the chiller® series units. Misunderstood operating procedures can result in
unsatisfactory performance and/or premature failure of these units, so before proceeding please read
this manual completely.

The chiller® series units are covered under the existing Marine Air Systems warranty policy contained
in this manual. In the interest of product improvement, Marine Air Systems’ specifications and design
are subject to change without prior notice.

MARINE AIR SYSTEMS

Marine Air Systems (MAS) is a division of Dometic Corporation. Dometic is a recognized leader in
the design and manufacture of high-performance comfort control systems, refrigeration products and
battery charging products for demanding environments, including commercial and recreational marine
craft, vehicles and other applications. We offer an unparalleled scope of products, dealer networks,
applications support, engineering resources and production capabilities throughout the world. Our
team has many years of experience in the design, manufacture, application and support of our products.
Our practical experience and design capability allows our application engineers and_ sales
representatives to offer optimum solutions for your environmental control requirements. Product lines
also include well-known Cruisair, Grunert, and Sentry.

Original print date: 4/98
Revised: 12/98, 10/99, 4/00, 8/01, 8/04
TABLE OF CONTENTS
HOW It Works oo... cecececeeecceeeeseeeeeeeeceeneceeesenevsecerecaeeeteceeceesecneeseneeevevnessereeeersesecneeseneviteniesisieeneerserereteets 1
Safety Considerations .....0..0.cccccecccccecceceececeeececeseeeeceeceeecaeeeseeeeaeeaeesecaecseesecceeseeaeeeeesesaeeaeeneseseneeneneeeesenes
Definition of Terms Used in this Martial oo... cccceececccecceeeeeescereeenecneeevseeeeceenesasuesaeersareeserserersnrseeeneats
Electrical Grounding and Bonding
3 Phase Notice.........cceseeseeceeereeereetees
Condensing Unit and Electric Box
Ait Handlers... ceccececcececeeceeseceeeeeeeececesceececnecseceesecaenecaeeeseeecaesecneceeneveeceeceveeesurescersecsaseeseeeesesesneetnertees
Mounting Digital Air Handler Controls 2.0.00... 0ccceccecceccececeeee cee eeeeeeeeeceeceeecaeeeseseteeeaeeeeseeeeieeeeeneenes
DUCting oo... eee ce cece tee ceeseeeeeeeeeeeeeentens
Supply and Return Air Grilles
Sizing of Ducting and Grilles for Draw Thru & Flex Duct Air Handlers
Draw Thru & Flex Duct Air Handlers........0.ccceccecececeeeceeeeeeeeeneeeceeecnecenevnreescriesitieesenreeetrentueneenteees
Blow Thru Air Handlers .......ccceccccesccceeceeeeeeesceenscneeeneenecsneceeeeeeeeceesecnevseneseceriesiserserersereneerenreeess
Slim Line Air Handlers we
Condensate Drains... cccecceecceeeeeceseeeeeeeeeeeeseeceenecnecaeevaecasneeeserseeeecaenecnevensevaecesieeeserteeeresnieetenreeess
Seawater PUMP ........cccccceccccccececcececeeceeeeeeecaeceeceeceseeseeecaeceeeeereeseeseeeceeceeeeeeseeseeeeeceeecresneeeceeseeeeresitesieeees
Seawater Plumbing 200.0... cece eee ceceeeececeeceeeceeeeeceecaeceeceecaessescecaeeseeeeseeeneecaeeeeseeeaesieseseeesieeeeeeaees
Seawater & Chilled Water Manifold S1Zes oc eccccecccseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeerceeeecnecaensenevatneversetcevesitnevrstieeaeees
Chilled Water Circulation Circuit we
Recommended Pipe or Hose Size vs. System Capacity ...0..0..0ccccccccccceceeeceeceeeeeeeeseceeneetesesensenaneees
Circulation Circuit Pressure .........cccecececcesceeesceeeeceeceeesenseeesesreaeueeaeeesureecesceeeesaeeeenesatnetnestnevsreteenareas
Chilled Water Pump .......0......00 cee
Suggested Piping to Air Handlers
Fresh Water Fill System .....0.00.0..005 ve
Trnstlations 2... cccecceccccececeeceeeeeeeeeseeeceeeeceenseneeaenevecacuesaeeeseeersaeseeneenenesnessiesaseesrersnrssneesisireeeerseeneentnets
Piping Installation... ccecceccccece eee cecceeeseeeeeeeecaeceeeeececeseeeecaecseecaeeeeesecaecaeeeesseeseeieeeesseeseeeeatees
Typical Chilled Water System Installation Diagram...........
Miscellaneous Optional Components
Flushing the Circulation Circuit ........0..000..
Filling & Purging the Circulation Circuit
Generic Wiring Diagram for Line Voltage MCW System .....0..00.cccccecece cece cee ceeeeeeeeeeeteeteeteseeeneeeaee
Individual Unit Wiring Diagrams (see chiller electric box for unit specific wiring diagram) ........... 23-28
DDC — Digital Diagnostic Controller... ccc ceceeeene eee ceeeeeeee cee ceeeaecaeeeeceeeaeceeceetaeeseseeseeneeseeatens
DDC Specifications... c cece ccecccceccceceeceeceeceseeeeceeeseeeeceeceeecaeeeceeeaeeeeeeeaesaeceesseeseeseseesaeeseesaeeeeeesaeeaes
DDC Programmable Parameters.........0.0..0ccccccccceccecceceeeeeeeseeeecceeeeeceececeeeeaesaeeeesaeeseeseceesseesaeeeeneeeaeeaes
Fault Display Codes (see also Trouble-Shooting Guidelines)
Using the Bimini Jumpers for Trouble-Shooting ..........0.0.000..00: ve
Sequencing the CoMpressors.........0c.ccccecceecceceseeeeeseeeceeceeeseceeceeeeeecaeceeseecaeceeceesaeeseeeesseeseesaeeeeseeseeatens
Start-Up of the System .....0..cccccccccccccceceeceeeccececeeeeeecesecaeeaeeecaecseesecceceeeaesaeeeecaeeaecsecaecseesaseeseseeaeeaeesesaeeaes
Maintenance...
Routine Maintenance.......
Extended Maintenance
Winterization and the Use of Glycol
De-W inter izing oo. ceeeceec cece ccc ce cee ceeececeeceeecaeceeeeecaeeaeeseceeceeeeseeceeesaeeeeeeeaecaeeeessesaesieseesaeeeeseeeeseeateaes
Seawater Condenser Coil Cleaning Procedure
Trouble Shooting Guidelines .....0.....0.0.ceeeeee
Manufacturer’s Limited Warranty Agreement
System Specific Settings... cccccccecceccececececeeeeeeceeceeecaeeeceseesecaeceecaeeseesecaesseecaeeseeeeesecaeeeesaeeceesesaeesesaeeaes
Maintenance Record 00... ceceecceeceseeeeeceeceeecneeseneeneceeneceeesneeeceeseenecieneenesascesiecnieeeserserersersureeserseneeteets
Distributor Listing... ccc ccccccec cece cece cecceceeeeeceseeeecaeeeeceecaecsececaeeseeescesseeaeceeeeessecaesessesesensesaeeeeeeeeeaeess

HOW IT WORKS

Your chilled water air conditioning system consists of the chiller, air handlers installed throughout the
vessel, fresh water piping connecting the chiller to the air handlers, and the seawater system. The
chiller consists of three major components: the compressor, the “tube in tube” condenser coil and the
evaporator (or heat exchanger). The chiller is charged with a refrigerant that circulates throughout
these components. The air handlers consist of two major components: the blower and coil. Fresh
water circulates through the piping from the chiller to each air handler and back.

In cooling mode, warm cabin air is drawn (or blown) across the air handler coil by the blower. Heat is
removed from the air as it passes across the coil. The cooled air is then blown back into the cabin. The
heat from the cabin air is transferred to the fresh water circulating through the coil. The warmed water
is pumped back to the chiller. The water is circulated through the chiller evaporator where the heat is
transferred to the refrigerant in the evaporator coil, thus cooling the “chilled” water. The “heated”
refrigerant gas is returned to the compressor, compressed, and then circulated through the outer tube in
the chiller condenser coil. Seawater is circulating through the inner tube of the condenser coil via the
seawater system. The heat is transferred from the refrigerant to the seawater and pumped overboard
taking the original cabin air heat with it. The chilled water (not seawater) is then pumped back through
the piping to the air handlers in a continuous loop as the cycle repeats.

If the vessel is heated, it is either by reverse cycle or electric heat. Each method pumps warm water
from the chiller to the air handlers. For reverse cycle heating, the chiller refrigerant flows in the
opposite direction through a reversing valve, thus adding heat to the fresh water loop, instead of
removing it as in the cooling mode. Electric heat systems use a heater barrel to warm the fresh water.
Some systems also use “chill chasers” which are electric heating coils built into the air handlers that
warm the air directly.

SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS

Installation and servicing of this system can be hazardous due to system pressure and electrical
components. Only trained and certified service personnel should install, repair, or service equipment.
When working on this equipment, always observe precautions described in the literature, tags, and
labels attached to the unit. Follow all safety codes. Wear safety glasses and work gloves and place a
fire extinguisher close to the work area.

Never install your air handlers in the bilge or engine room areas. Insure that the selected
location is sealed from direct access to bilge and/or engine room vapors. Do not terminate
condensate drain line within four (4) feet of any outlet of engine or generator exhaust systems,
nor in a compartment housing an engine or generator, nor in a bilge, unless the drain is
connected properly to a sealed condensate or shower sump pump.

Danger! Electrical shock hazard. Disconnect voltage at main panel or power source before opening
any cover. Failure to comply may result in injury or death.

Warning! To minimize the hazard of electrical shock and personal injury, this component must be
effectively grounded. Refer to installation guidelines for further information.

(Continued)
Notice: This component is charged with a HYDROCHLOROFLUOROCARBON (HCFC) refrigerant
R22. Effective July 1, 1992 it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly vent or otherwise
knowingly release any class I (CFC) or class II (HCFC) substance as a refrigerant in a manner which
permits such substance to enter the atmosphere per the clean air act of 1990. Public law 101-549 title
IV section 608-C. Failure to comply may result in severe penalties, including fines and imprisonment.

DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN THIS MANUAL

AIR HANDLER: The fan coil unit that circulates air into a specific area for heating or cooling. Three
types of air handlers are available:

Draw Thru & Flex Duct - Air handlers with the fan positioned to draw air from the cabin
across the air handler coil and deliver the conditioned air through duct work back into the cabin.
Blow Thru - An air handler with the fan positioned to push or blow cabin air across the air
handler coil directly into the cabin. No duct work is used on this type of air handler.

Slim Line - A modular blow thru air handler with interchangeable panels for alternate supply
and return air locations. Duct work may be used on this type of air handler, however, it must be
a short plenum with the same size as the supply air opening in the unit to a same sized grille.

BLEEDER PORTS: Capped ports connected to 1/4” flexible tubing located on the air handlers for
purging air from the chilled water circulation system.

BONDING: In the vessel’s electrical system, any metal that might come into contact with salt water is
connected to the bonding circuit to help alleviate the effects of electrolysis (follow ABYC standards).

BTU: (British Thermal Unit) A common term used to define and measure capacity or refrigeration
effect.

CFM: Abbreviation for “cubic feet per minute”, a term used to specify the volume of airflow through
the air handlers and ducting.

CHILL CHASER: An auxiliary electric heater located in the air handler.

CHILLED WATER CIRCULATION CIRCUIT: This is supply and return piping from the chiller
to the air handlers. The supply piping carries chilled water (in cool mode) from the chiller to the air
handlers. Return piping carries warmed water (in cool mode) from the air handlers back to the chiller.
The supply and return piping form a continuous closed loop.

CHILLED WATER CIRCULATION PUMP: A centrifugal pump used to circulate the fresh water
between the chiller and the air handlers for heat transfer. Since this pump is located in a “closed loop”
system, it does not need to be installed below the water line of the vessel. Whereas the seawater pump
does need to be installed below the water line.

CIRCUIT BREAKER: An electrical device which provides high current and short circuit protection
for the compressor, air handlers and pumps used in the chilled water system. HACR (heating, air
conditioning & refrigeration) type circuit breakers are recommended for the ship’s panel. HACR
circuit breakers have a long delay to compensate for the electrical surge associated with compressor.
COMPRESSOR: An electrical motor/pump that draws cool, low pressure refrigerant gas and
compresses the gas into a hot, high pressure gas.

COMPRESSOR OVERLOAD: An electrical device used to protect the compressor from excessive
heat or current draw.

CONDENSATE DRAIN PAN: The pan directly under the air handler’s coil for removal of the
“condensed” moisture taken out of the cabin air. Two drain spud attachments are provided for
connection to drain hoses for proper removal of the water to a sump. There is also a condensate drain
pan located under each chiller and the chilled water pump.

CONDENSER: The heat exchanger through which heat is transferred between the refrigerant in the
chiller and the seawater flowing through the coils and manifold.

DDC: Digital Diagnostic Controller circuit board mounted in the electric box monitors and protects the
system through the use of an aquastat, timer, freeze stat, high limit switch and high & low pressure
switches, all programmed to read out on a LED panel for immediate diagnosis.

ELECTRIC HEAT: Electric resistance heaters are used as a chill chaser in the air handlers to warm
the air, or in the chiller heater barrels to warm the circulating water in heat mode.

EXPANSION TANK: A container housing a diaphragm (20 psig) to cushion against any water
hammer in the circulation system piping. It also provides for expansion of the water volume as the
water is heated.

FAN SPEED CONTROL: An “on/off” switch that also regulates the amount of voltage supplied to
the fan motor, thus controlling the speed at which the motor turns.

FLOW SWITCH: A control device located on the chilled water supply side of each of the brazed
plate heat exchangers that prevents the system from operating until water flow has been established,
and turns the system off if the water flow is insufficient.

FREEZE STAT: A low temperature thermostat used as a control device to sense chilled water
temperatures and shut the entire condensing unit off when supply water temperatures in the circulation
piping system reach 38°F. This prevents the possibility of rupturing the chilled water evaporator coil,
as well as any other piping in the system, due to the water freezing.

FRESH WATER FILL SYSTEM: Components installed on the return line to the chiller for filling
the circulation circuit piping system.

GPM: Abbreviation for “gallons per minute”, a term used to specify the amount of water flow through
the chilled water or seawater system.

HIGH LIMIT SWITCH: A high temperature thermostat used as a safety device to shut down the
condensing unit when the water temperature in the circulation piping circuit reaches 120°F. This
prevents the possibility of damaging any PVC piping or any other components due to the water getting
too hot.
HIGH/LOW PRESSURE SWITCHES: Electrical control devices operated by high and low side
system refrigerant pressures respectively. If pressure is too high (425psig) or too low (35psig) the
appropriate switch automatically opens the electrical circuit and shuts down the respective compressor.
These switches reset automatically.

MOTORIZED WATER VALVE: An electrically operated 3-way water regulating valve on an
individual air handler controlled by the thermostat. This valve provides water flow through the air
handler when opened, and bypasses water flow from the supply side to the return side when closed.

PUMP RELAY PANEL (PRP): Used with more than one chiller, the PRP is a circuit board module
wired between the chillers and the chilled water or seawater pump (one PRP for each pump). When
any of the chillers is turned on to heat or cool both PRPs are energized and switch each pump on. Each
PRP should have its own circuit breaker sized for the pump, but not to exceed 20 amps.

REVERSING VALVE: (on reverse cycle units only) An electromagnetically controlled valve that
reverses the flow of refrigerant between the condenser and evaporator of the chilled water condensing
unit, thereby permitting heat to be extracted from the cabin in the cooling mode and added into the
cabin in the heating mode.

RUN CAPACITOR: An electrical storage device used to reduce amperage to some electric motors for
more efficient operation.

SEAWATER PUMP: A pump and motor combination that provides a continuous water flow through
the condenser coil(s). The seawater pump must be installed below the water line for proper operation.

SEAWATER STRAINER: A housing containing a screen made of metal or nylon to filter out debris
drawn into the seawater circuit that could foul up the seawater pump or piping. The strainer must
located between the thru hull inlet and seawater pump.

START CAPACITOR: An electrical component that assists the compressor by releasing stored
current during initial start up.

START RELAY: An electrical device that controls the duration of voltage supplied from the start
capacitor to the compressor on start up.

THERMOSTAT: An adjustable control device that senses room temperature, via an air thermistor or
sensor, and operates the motorized valve (if installed) on an air handler for water flow.

THERMOSTATIC EXPANSION VALVE (TXV): A metering device used to convert high pressure
liquid refrigerant to low pressure liquid refrigerant.

THRU HULL FITTING: There are two different thru hull fittings used in the seawater circuit. The
speed scoop strainer inlet fitting is mounted below the water and serves as the inlet for the seawater
circuit. The discharge thru hull fitting is mounted above the water line and serves as the outlet for the
seawater circuit.

TON: In refrigeration/air conditioning, a ton is the amount of heat absorbed in melting a ton (2000 Ibs)
of ice over a 24-hour period. The ton of refrigeration is equal to 288,000 Btu in 24 hours. Divide
288,000 by 24 and get 12,000 Btu per hour. Therefore, one ton of refrigeration = 12,000 Btu/hr.

4
ELECTRICAL GROUNDING AND BONDING

NOTE: Field wiring must comply with ABYC electrical codes. Power to the unit must be
within the operating voltage range indicated on the data plate in the electric box. Properly
sized HACR circuit breakers must be installed for branch circuit protection. See data
plate for maximum fuse/circuit breaker size (mfs) and minimum circuit ampacity (mca).

All chillers are supplied with a terminal strip mounted inside the electrical box. The electrical supply,

ground wires, and pump circuits are all connected at this terminal strip. All units must be effectively

grounded to minimize the hazard of electric shock and personal injury. The following are to be
observed:

1. AC (alternating current) grounding (green wire) must be provided with the AC power
conductors and connected to the ground terminal (marked “GRND”) at the AC power input
terminal block of the unit(s), per ABYC standard E-8, or equivalent.

2. Connections between the vessel’s AC system grounding conductor (green wire) and the vessel’s
DC (Direct Current) negative or bonding system should be made as part of the vessel’s wiring,
per ABYC standard E-9, or equivalent.

3, When servicing or replacing existing equipment that contains a chassis-mounted “ground” stud,
the service person or installer must check the vessel’s wiring for the existence of the connection
required in item 2 above.

ABYC standards are available from: |§ American Boat and Yacht Council

3069 Solomon’s Island Rd.
Edgewater, MD 21036 Telephone: (410) 956-1050

The condenser manifold comes equipped with a tab for wiring to the ship’s bonding system. The
chiller must be connected to the ship’s bonding system to prevent corrosion due to stray
electrical current or voltage. All pumps, metallic valves and fittings in the seawater circuit that are
isolated from the unit by PVC or rubber hoses must be individually bonded to the vessels bonding
system also. This will help eliminate any possibility of corrosion due to stray current or voltage.
FAILURE TO PROPERLY GROUND AND BOND THE SYSTEM WILL VOID
WARRANTY!

3 PHASE NOTICE

For all three phase chillers (power source is either 208-230VAC/3@or 380-460VAC/3@), it is
extremely important to insure that wiring and phase sequencing of the three phase power source is
correct. Marine wiring standards call for power source phases L1, L2, and L3 to be color-coded
BLACK, WHITE, and RED, respectively. These must be connected to the unit with the proper
sequence. Otherwise, it will not operate properly. If the wiring sequence is incorrect, the unit’s
compressor (Scro// type only) and pump (if applicable) will run in the reverse direction at a
significantly increased noise level. Reverse compressor operation will result in increased suction
pressure and reduced head pressure. No cooling will be produced. If the circulating pump runs in the
reverse direction, the closed water loop will not achieve high enough operating pressures and air can
not be eliminated from the system. If the seawater pump runs in the reverse direction, it will not
deliver cooling water to the condenser. The electric heat may work properly, but reverse cycle heating
will not.
CONDENSING UNIT AND ELECTRIC BOX

The chilled water condensing units are designed to be installed below deck either in the engine room,
machinery compartment, lazarette, or similar type area. They are unaffected by vibration, moisture or
ambient temperatures up to 140°F (60°C). These units must be well secured on a sturdy, level surface
with the two mounting brackets provided. The MCW Chiller must be installed so that it is accessible
for service when required. Multi-stage chillers must have at least 12" of free space on the side for
plumbing to the manifolds. The condensing unit is hermetically sealed and requires no ventilation for
proper operation. Normal engine room temperatures will not affect operation of the condensing unit.
The electric box can either remain mounted on the chiller, as shipped from the factory, or remote
mounted. Single phase units have position sensitive start relays in the electric box. If the electric box
is to be remote mounted, ensure that the start relay is in the up position. The start relay bracket inside
the electric box may be rotated to accommodate a vertical mounting position. Three phase chillers
have electric boxes that can be remote mounted either vertically or horizontally.

AIR HANDLERS

Air handlers are designed in three types of configurations - Draw Thru & Flex Duct, Blow Thru and
Slim Line - to allow for flexibility in any application. All types must be fastened securely and level for
proper operation and condensation removal. All air handlers must have an unrestricted return air
stream. VERY IMPORTANT: Never install air handler in bilge or engine room areas. Insure that the
selected location is sealed from direct access to bilge and/or engine room vapors. Do not terminate
condensate drain lines within three (3) feet of any outlet of engine or generator exhaust systems, nor in
a compartment housing an engine or generator, nor in a bilge (vapors can travel up the drain line),
unless the drain is connected properly to a sealed condensate or shower sump pump. Failure to comply
may allow bilge or engine room vapors to mix with the air conditioners return air and contaminate
living areas. For installations on sailboats that heel over 15°, position air handlers so that the
condensate pans drain port and starboard and use both drains teed together (see “Condensate Drains”
section of this manual).

MOUNTING DIGITAL AIR HANDLER CONTROLS

Before mounting the digital display panel touch pad consider the location. The air sensor built into the
display panel will provide excellent room air temperature sensing given a proper installation. The
display panel should be mounted on an inside wall, slightly higher than mid-height of the cabin, in a
location with freely circulating air where it can best sense average temperature. Do not mount the
display in the supply air stream. Do not mount the display in direct sunlight, near any heat
producing appliances or in a bulkhead where temperatures radiating from behind the panel may effect
performance. Do not mount the display above or below a supply or return air grille. Do not mount the
display behind a door, in a corner, under a stairwell or any place where there is no freely circulating air.
Mount the display within display cable length (custom lengths available) of the a/c unit. Plug the
display cable (8-pin connector) into the circuit board in the electric box and into the back of the display
panel. Secure the display panel to a bulkhead with the adhesive strips provided. Clean the mounting
surface with isopropyl alcohol only prior to placement (test alcohol on hidden portion of surface first).
If the adhesive strips cannot be used directly on the bulkhead then use a plastic bulkhead adapter. The
bulkhead adapter (sold separately) is mounted to the bulkhead with screws and the display panel is
secured to the adapter with adhesive strips. Do not use a screw gun and do not over-tighten screws
when mounting adapter.
If a proper location for room temperature sensing cannot be found for the display, an optional remote
air sensor may be used. Mount the remote air sensor in the return air stream behind the returm air
grille/opening and plug its cable (6-pin connector) into the circuit board. Installing the remote air
sensor will override the face plate sensor. An optional outside air temperature (O.A.T.) sensor and 6-
pin cable may also be used (only if the remote air sensor is not used). Mount the sensor outside but not
in direct sunlight. Secure all cables but do not staple when mounting. See air handler control manual
for water sensor mounting instructions.

DUCTING

Good air flow is critical for the performance of the entire system. It is highly dependent on the quality
of the ducting installation. The ducting should be run as straight, smooth and taut as possible
minimizing the number of 90 degree bends (two tight 90 degree bends can reduce airflow by 25%).
The following table shows minimum duct diameters and their corresponding return and supply air
grille areas in square inches. If a transition box is used, the total area of supply air ducts going out of
the box should equal the area of the supply duct feeding the box. To calculate the square inch area of a
round duct: divide the diameter by two to get the radius (1), multiply the radius by itself (1°), and
multiply that number by 3.1416 (7). The following is a summary of proper ducting connections:

1. Pull back the fiberglass insulation exposing the inner mylar duct hose.

2. Slide the mylar duct hose around the mount ring until it bottoms out.

3. Screw 3 or 4 stainless steel sheet metal screws through the duct hose into the mount ring. Make
sure to catch the wire in the duct hose with the heads of the screws. Do not use band clamps,
the mount rings are tapered and the hose will slide off.

4. Wrap duct tape around the ducting and ring joint to prevent any air leaks.

5. Pull the insulation back up over the mylar to the ring and secure with tape.

All ducting should:
e Be appropriately sized for each application.
Run as smoothly and taut as possible.
Have as few bends or loops as possible.
Be securely fastened to prevent sagging during boat operation.
Have all excess ducting lengths trimmed off.
Not be flattened or kinked.
Be insulated when located in high heat load areas (hull side, mechanical compartments, etc.).

The design of a proper supply ducting system in a boat begins with the outlet from the blower. The
blower ring sizes used by MAS are designed to keep the air velocity and frictional pressure drop
relatively /ow on the supply air side. Reducing the blower ring size will create higher air velocities.
Higher air velocities will increase pressure drop and increase air flow noise. Increased pressure drop
will reduce the overall air flow (CFM) and the heating or cooling capacity of the unit (BTU/hr). In
order to keep the air to an acceptable velocity a ducting system should have the same cross sectional
area as the blower ring. The following table shows the cross sectional area needed for each size unit as
well as the size of the duct ring supplied on the unit.

Several circumstances may be encountered where a larger duct size may be needed to achieve the
desired air flow for a particular unit. These include excessively long duct runs (greater than twenty
feet), large numbers of bends in the duct runs (greater than 3-90° bends), or a transition box located at
the outlet of the blower. In each of these cases a duct size one inch larger than that shown in the
following table should be used.
MAS recommends that ducting not be used on the return air side of a unit. However, if the unit must
be return air ducted, it is recommended that the return air duct size be at least one inch larger in
diameter than the recommended supply air duct size.

The recommended minimum duct length for a draw thru type air handler is five feet (1.52m). This
length prevents motor noise or vane tip noise on the blower wheel from being audible in the cabin area.
The maximum duct length of twenty feet (6.04m) should not be exceeded. These longer duct runs can
prevent proper air flow delivery, causing poor operation and performance.

When using ducting transition boxes, the total outlet area should be at least equal to the inlet area.

Built-in air plenums should be constructed to deliver proper air flow and minimize air noise. Plenums
should be fully pressurized by the air delivery through the duct work and incorporate diffusers when
necessary to create an even flow across the entire surface of the supply grille or outlet. The cross
sectional area of the plenum should be equal to, or slightly bigger than, the supply duct. Undersized
plenums create air turbulence and generally cause “noisy” air delivery. Oversized plenums do not
pressurize sufficiently and cause poor or no air flow. All air plenums must be thoroughly sealed to
prevent air leakage. Plenums constructed of conductive materials must be insulated properly to prevent
condensation and possible water damage. Wood is a conductive material and should be sealed to
prevent delamination, and insulated where necessary.

SUPPLY & RETURN AIR GRILLES

The retum air grille should be placed as close as possible to the air handler to maintain direct
uninterrupted airflow to the coil. It should also be mounted as low as possible. The return air grille
should not be located in such a way that the supply air blows directly into it. This will cause “short
cycling” which results in poor performance and inadequate air conditioning. All return air grilles must
have a filter attached to prevent dust or particle build up in the coil. If return air grilles are not used
(i.e., louvered doors, hidden cut outs, etc.) a filter should be attached to the air handler making sure that
there is enough clearance for access to the filter for cleaning.

The supply air grille should be mounted as high as possible in the cabin to ensure proper air flow. This
application permits air flow across the ceiling of the cabin and causes natural convection currents with
the cool supply air falling, and forcing the warm air through the return air stream or up to the ceiling to
mix with the cooler air being distributed. Failure to deliver the supply air high can result in
stratification of the air in a cabin, causing cooler temperatures near the floor and warmer temperatures
near the ceiling.

SIZING OF DUCTING AND GRILLES FOR DRAW THRU &
FLEX DUCT AIR HANDLERS

BTU/HR 4,000 6,000 9,000 12,000 16,000 18,000 24,000
Duct 4" dia 5” dia 5” dia 6” dia 7" dia 7" dia 8” dia
Diameter
Duct 12.6 sq in 19.6 sq in 19.6sqin | 28.3 sqin | 38.5sqin | 38.5 sqin | 50.3 sqin
Area
Return 49 sq in 70 sq in 98 sq in 140 sq in 168 sq in 200 sq in 280 sq in
Air Grille
Supply 24 sq in 35 sq in 50 sq in 70 sq in 84 sq in 100 sq in 140 sq in
Air Grille

DRAW THRU & FLEX DUCT AIR HANDLERS

These units are ductable air handlers with rotatable blower assemblies, providing diverse arrangements
for supplying air to one or more cabins. They are designed to be installed low in a cabin area, under
seats or berths, or in the bottom of lockers to maintain a return air stream close to floor level.
Fastening the air handlers is accomplished through the mounting brackets and screws provided. The
blower assembly should be rotated, if necessary, to provide the most direct ducting run possible.

Supply Air.
Grille

Remote Mounted

i , Box
= Supply Air Transition Box

\
‘|

DC_Ie@

Blower Assembly

tical iti
(vertical position) — Flexible

Ducting

“A || || :
A hat Return Air
f i r Blower Assembly
5) <== i Grille (horizontal position)
Se =>
as
Insulated z
Reinforced = :
_ Hose |
Condensation Soe
Drain Lines Service Return Air Grille

(teed) Valves WY |

To Cirulcation Condensation
Circuit Lines to Sump
BLOW THRU AIR HANDLERS

These units are nonductable air handlers designed to be installed high in a cabin area: at the top of
lockers, bulkhead corners or overhead compartments. They can be fastened securely using the four
mounting grommets located in the upper four corners of the mounting plate.

As no duct work is used, blow thru air handlers must be able to deliver air directly into cabin areas.
They must be located against the inside of a bulkhead or partition common to the cabin to be
conditioned. The supply air grille must be at least equal in surface area and dimensions to the coil.

If the air handler cannot be flush mounted against the bulkhead or partition, a plenum chamber can be
attached between the face of the coil and the inside of the partition. This plenum must be equal or
slightly larger than the coil surface, sealed completely, and be a short, straight run. Due to their design,
the blow thru air handlers cannot be connected to excessively long plenums, multi-directional plenums,
or any duct work.

The return air to a blow thru air handler is provided through a properly sized grille (at least equal to the
size of the coil) located underneath, alongside, or behind the air handler. While this return air grille is
located higher in the cabin and close to the air handler than a typical draw thru application, proper air
circulation is still achieved.

— 1 +— _AH-BT Series
| Unit — Single‘Blower AH-BT Series

(typical installation) Unit — Dual Blower
——— ao (typical installation)

_= Return Air

Flexible

Reinforced. Grille
Hose (insulated)
Condensation

| Service Drain
Valves Lines

10
SLIM LINE AIR HANDLERS

Slim line air handlers are used in limited space situations. They are similar in application to the blow
thru air handlers; however, slim lines can be mounted low in side panels and narrow bulkhead spaces.
Currently, the slim line is constructed in two modules, the blower and the coil. The two modules can
be configured horizontally or vertically. The horizontal configuration is used for overhead mounting
and the vertical configuration is used for mounting behind bulkheads and panels. The return air grille
must be the same size as on the unit. Slim line units can be ducted with the use of plenums. Follow
the same guidelines for the blow thru units for plenum construction.

Supply
Air Grille

/

Suppl
Air Grille

SLL
Horizontal
Application

Return
Air Grille

Vertical
Supply Air
Grille

fj
Ducted SSS
Plenum i

Return
Air Grille

Service

oe Valves

Vertical
Application

Removable Filter
To Circulation

\
' System
Return Air Grille 7) LU
Flexible Hose Dual
(insulated) Consensation

Drain

11
CONDENSATE DRAINS

All units come with condensate drains. Under adverse climate conditions (for example, high humidity)
condensate water could be produced at a rate of approximately one gallon per hour. With this in mind,
it is important to route condensate drains properly utilizing all standard practices for securing hoses and
mounting thru-hull fittings. After the condensate installation is complete, test the installation by
pouring a quart of water into the pan and checking for flow. For installation of the condensate drain:
e Attach a 5/8" LD. reinforced hose to the hose barb drain spud with a hose clamp and tighten.
e Install the condensate drain downhill from the unit and aft to a proper drainage area.
e¢ IMPORTANT NOTE: Do not terminate any condensate drain within three (3) feet of the
outlet of engine or generator exhaust systems, nor in a compartment housing an engine or
generator, nor in a bilge, unless the drain is connected properly to a sealed condensate or
shower sump pump. Fumes and vapors can travel up the condensate line and contaminate the
supply air to living quarters.
e The drain lines should be installed as short and direct as possible with a continuous downhill
pitch, free of loops, kinks, or upward bends.
e For installations on sailboats that heel over 15°, position air handlers so that the condensate
pans drain port and starboard and use both drains teed together.
e If dual drain fittings are used they may be connected to a single condensation drain line if a
minimum 2" (5.1cm) drop exists from the base pan drains to the connection fittings.

SEAWATER PUMP

The chillers condensing units are water-cooled and require a properly sized seawater pump for
optimum operation. The seawater pumps are sized according to the BTU capacity of the chilled water
unit. The seawater pump must be installed so that it is always at least one foot below the water line
regardless of which tack the vessel is on. If the capacity of your air conditioning system is greater than
or equal to 24,000 BTU/hr, the seawater pump is most likely air cooled and will need occasional oiling.
See manufacturer’s labeling on the pump for maintenance instructions.

e IMPORTANT: Each pump relay panel (PRP) must have a dedicated circuit breaker sized for
the pump but not to exceed 20 amps maximum.

e IMPORTANT: Pumps greater than 3/4 horsepower (HP) must be connected through a pump
relay panel and not the DDC. This is true even for single stage units because the DDC control
relay is not designed to handle the amp load of a larger pump.

e Three phase pumps must be equipped with an overload.

SEAWATER PLUMBING

WARNING! Seawater cooling system pressure should not exceed 30psig. Seawater temperature will
directly affect the chiller’s efficiency. This chiller can effectively cool your boat in water temperatures
up to 90°F and heat (if reverse cycle option is installed) in water as low as 40°F. Use electric heat (if
installed) in seawater temperatures below 40°F.

Install the seawater speed scoop intake as far below the water line and as close to the keel as
possible in any application, but especially on a sailboat, to keep the intake in the water when the
boat heels over so that air does not get into the system. A speed scoop should be utilized to insure
positive water flow while the vessel is underway. The speed scoop must be installed facing forward
and not be shared with any other pump. A full flow bronze sea cock (ball valve), connected directly to

12
the speed scoop intake, must be used to be able to disrupt the incoming water to the sea strainer and
pump should the need arise. The thru-hull, strainer, and hoses should be equal in size to the pump
inlet. Bed the speed scoop and thru hull with a marine type sealant.

Since the seawater pump is centrifugal and not self-priming, it must be mounted so that it is always
at least one foot below the water line regardless of which tack the vessel is on. The pump may be
mounted horizontally or vertically, however the discharge must always be above the inlet. The pump
head should be rotated toward the direction of water flow. It is recommended that all hose connections
be secured by means of double/reversed stainless steel hose clamps. A sea strainer between the sea
cock and pump is mandatory to protect the pump from foreign matter, such as seaweed. Not using a
seawater strainer will void the pump warranty and jeopardize the entire system. The seawater system
must be installed with an upward incline from the seacock through the strainer to the inlet of the
pump and then up to the chiller condenser coil/manifold inlet.

From the discharge outlet of the pump, route the plumbing to the inlet connection on the condenser
coil/ manifold. This hose should be plumbed as straight and smooth as possible, with no loops or
vertical bends, so that it is self-draining and consequently self-purging. The discharge outlet of the
condenser must be plumbed overboard using a discharge thru-hull located above the water line. The
location selected for the overboard discharge thru-hull should be accessible for periodic visual
inspection and as close to the water line as practicable to reduce noise. It is recommended that marine
grade reinforced hose be used as well as double/reversed stainless steel hose clamps throughout the
seawater system.

Follow these guidelines for installing the seawater system:

e The entire system from the speed scoop inlet to the chiller should be plumbed on a slight uphill
incline to prevent air traps and provide a self-purging system.

e The pump must be located well below the water line and as close to the seawater strainer and
thru hull fitting as possible.

e The seawater strainer must be installed below the pump with access to the strainer basket.

e The inlet size of the thru hull fitting and the seawater strainer must be equal to the inlet size of
the seawater pump.

e The speed scoop thru hull fitting must be dedicated to the chilled water system only and be
located as far below the water line and as close to the keel as possible in such a way as to not be
obstructed or affected by other fittings or components attached to the underside of the hull.

e The thru hull fitting must have a speed scoop (or equivalent), facing forward, to maintain a
column of water to the seawater pump.

e Bed the scoop with a marine type sealant designed for underwater applications.

e Install a bronze, full flow seacock on the thru-hull.

e The pump must be securely fastened in a horizontal position with the discharge outlet higher
than the suction inlet.

e Flexible reinforced hose must be used for connections to provide vibration isolation between
components.

e Discharge the water through a hull-side thru-hull fitting above the water line with access for
visual inspection.

e All flexible hose runs should be free of kinks and loops and be securely fastened. Avoid the
use of 90° elbows whenever possible.

e All hose connections must use double/reversed stainless steel hose clamps.

e Use Whitman Blue Magic industrial grade pipe thread compound (our best recommendation) or
teflon tape on all threaded connections.

e Ground and bond all metal components of the seawater system.

13
SEAWATER & CHILLED WATER MANIFOLD SIZES

Chiller Capacity (tons) 4-10 11-18 19-33 34-50
Chiller Capacity (BTU/hr x 1,000) 48-120 132-216 228-396 408-600
Manifold & FPT Connection Size 14" 2" 2" 3"

CHILLED WATER CIRCULATION CIRCUIT

The water circulation system is designed as a closed loop circuit connecting all air handlers to the
chillers. Piping size and type are determined by the overall BTU capacity of the system and the type of
heat used. For COOL ONLY systems use SCH 40 PVC minimum. For REVERSE CYCLE or
ELECTRIC HEAT systems use SCH 80 PVC, CPVC or Copper Pipe. The following chart
provides information for sizing the chilled water piping. Installing pipe that is too small will increase
water velocities that may cause erosion of piping. Also, excessive water-side pressure drops can occur
which will reduce the water flow to the air handlers resulting in reduced performance. See center
pages of this manual for a typical chilled water and seawater systems installation diagram.

RECOMMENDED PIPE OR HOSE SIZE vs. SYSTEM CAPACITY
Capacity
(BTU/hr x 4-21 24-45 48-81 84-129 132-225 228-405 408-600

1,000)

Tons 0.33-1.75 2-3.75 4-6.75 7-10.75 11-18.75 | 19-33.75 34-50
GPM 1-5.25 6-11.25 12-20.25 | 21-32.25 | 33-56.25 | 57-101.25 | 102-150

(3/ton)

Nominal 34" * 1" 1%" 14" 3" Al 3 '"

Size

*5/8" hose may be used when piping to a single 4K to 16K air handler.

If individual piping runs exceed fifty feet (15.24m), the next larger pipe size is recommended, this will
help reduce the pressure drop through the system. The “System Capacity” listed in the chart above is
measured at any given point in the chilled water loop. Size the piping according to the total capacity of
air handlers fed from that point. Counter flow piping of the supply and return lines from the chiller
will assure equal water flow through all air handlers (i.e., the air handler closest to the chiller will have
the shortest length of supply water piping and the longest length of return water piping and vice versa).
Excessive pressure drops between air handlers will be eliminated with this type of piping arrangement.
Ends of main and branch chilled water lines should be extended and capped. This will help to balance
the water pressure, act as a cushion against water hammer, provide a clean-out port, guard against pipe
erosion and provide proper water flow to all air handlers. See sample piping schematic on center pages
of this manual.

The chilled water circulation circuit shall not be connected to the potable water system.

NOTICE: Check valves should not be used in the chilled water loop, seawater plumbing system or any
condensate drain line.

14
CIRCULATION CIRCUIT PRESSURE

The return side circulation circuit pressure gauge should read approximately 12psig when the system is
running in cool mode and up to 20psig in heat mode. See “Fresh Water Fill System”.

No part of the system should ever drop below atmospheric pressure. Pay special attention to the
pressure in the return water piping at its highest points. Negative pressurization can draw air into the
loop through the air handler bleeder ports.

CHILLED WATER PUMP

The chiller requires a properly sized chilled water pump for operation. Centrifugal pumps are
recommended due to their quiet operation and longevity with minimal maintenance. The chilled water
pumps are sized according to the BTU capacity of the chilled water unit. Service (ball) valves should
be placed close to the inlet and the outlet of the chilled water pump for aid in servicing and flushing
chilled water loop. A strainer should be placed between the inlet of the pump and the ball valve to
catch any particles in the circulation circuit. Avoid the use of elbows or other restrictive fittings at the
pump inlet and outlet unless the pump has been sized to handle the associative pressure drop.

SUGGESTED PIPING TO AIR HANDLERS

Marine Air Systems strongly recommends the use of 3/4" ball valves at each air handler to assist in
start-up and overall serviceability of the system. The hose barbs supplied by MAS are for 5/8" marine
grade hose (hose has 1/2" L.D.). Flexible reinforced hose is recommended for vibration isolation
between the water circuit valves and the air handlers. Couple the 5/8" hose from the air handler to the
3/4" ball valve and run pipe or hose (5/8" for 4-16K, 3/4" for 18-24K, 1" for 36-48K) from the ball
valve to the chilled water lines. Each hose connection should use double/reversed stainless steel hose
clamps. See the diagram below. NOTE: Air handlers larger than 24K use 1" hose connections and ball
valves.

PIPE OR HOSE FROM BALL VALVE MARINE GRADE HOSE WITH
CHILLED WATER LINES AND COUPLING DOUBLE/REVERSED STAINLESS
TO BALL aa STEEL HOSE CLAMPS

{ = | —= &
nad
i == OP Puss ox | —

HOSE BARB BRASS HOSE
ADAPTER

BARB ADAPTER

| — a — ie
AIR HANDLER

FRESH WATER FILL SYSTEM

The fresh water fill system must be installed on the return side of the circulation circuit and can be
teed into the main return line at any convenient location. The system consists of a water pressure
regulating valve assembly (with ball valve, check valve and hose bib, model HWRV), an expansion
tank (model HXTK) and a pressure gauge. The system is installed with the pressure gauge closest to
the main return line, then the expansion tank and then the water pressure regulating valve with the hose
bib at the end (see the diagram on pages 15 & 16 of this manual). All three components are single
direction position sensitive. Check each component’s markings (inlet, outlet, and water flow direction)
before assembling system.
15
The water regulating valve (ball valve) is opened during filling and/or purging of the circulation circuit,
and is closed while the system is in normal operation. While filling the system, this valve reduces the
incoming water pressure to approximately 12psig (factory set), which is the static pressure for the
chilled water system. The expansion tank allows the water in the system to expand as it gets hot when
the chiller is in heat mode. The expansion tank also acts as a cushion against “water hammer’. The
expansion tank must be securely mounted to prevent vibration, and can be mounted in a horizontal or
vertical position. The return side circulation circuit pressure gauge should read approximately 12psig
on the return side of the system when running in cool mode and up to 20psig in heat mode.

INSULATION

Proper insulation of the chilled water circuit is necessary to insure maximum performance as well as
protect against excessive condensation and possible water damage to the vessel. Use a closed cell type
insulation rated down to 40°F. Follow these instructions for installing insulation:

1. 1/2” thick tube insulation may be used for 5/8” hose. For pipe/hose less than 1" in diameter, use
3/4" thick tube insulation. For pipes equal to or greater than 1" in diameter, use 1" thick tube
insulation. Slide the tube insulation on each section of pipe prior to making the connections.

2. After making the connections, push the tube insulation flush against the fitting. Trim if necessary
to ensure a smooth application with no air pockets.

3. Pipe insulation should be glued and not tie wrapped. Tie wrapping will compress the insulation
and cause poor performance. There must be no air pockets between the pipe and the insulation.
All joints must be glued. All insulation must be air tight.

4. If the tube insulation is installed after the circulation piping circuit is connected, proceed as
follows:

e Use pre-slit insulation or cut existing tube insulation.

e Apply insulation adhesive thoroughly along both cut edges.

e Wrap around pipe and press the glued edges back together making sure a proper bond is made
with no openings or gaps. Do not attempt to use wire ties to hold insulation around pipe in
licu of adhesive.

5. When insulating fittings, follow the manufacturer's recommendation for the application of tube
insulation. If insulation tape is used, follow the manufacturer’s specifications to achieve equivalent
R-value to the insulation of adjacent pipes. Overlap insulation with tape to insure that no ambient
air is in contact with pipes or fittings. All insulation must be air tight.

PIPING INSTALLATION

The entire circulation circuit piping must be securely fastened in the vessel. The following

recommendations should be followed:

1. Secure the insulated piping into the vessel using:

e Properly sized clamps to hold the pipe in place without compressing the tube insulation.
e A rigid material used as a collar with a strap-type fastener to prevent compression of the
insulation.

2. Compressing the tube insulation will cause condensation through the surface, resulting in saturation
of the insulation and possible water damage to the interior of the vessel.

3. Any insulated pipe passing through a bulkhead should be supported with a piece of rigid material of
sufficient length to distribute the weight evenly over a large surface. This will prevent excessive
compression of the insulation.

(Continued on page 19.)

16
PIPE SIZING NOTES:

1) AT ANY GIVEN POINT IN THE CHILLED
WATER LOOP, ADD UP TOTAL BTU’S
FOR ALL AIR HANDLERS ‘DOWN STREAM’
TO GET SUPPLY PIPE SIZES.

2) RETURN PIPING IS SIZED BY ADDING
TOTAL BTU’S FED FROM AIR HANDLERS
RETURNING TO ANY GIVEN POINT.

3) AS STATED IN CHILLER MANUAL, THE AIR
HANDLER CLOSEST TO THE MAIN CHILLED
WATER LINE WILL HAVE THE SHORTEST
SUPPLY LINE RUN AND THE LONGEST
RETURN LINE RUN.

4) NOTICE THE DIRECTION OF WATER FLOW AS
INDICATED BY THE ARROWS.

5) SEE THE ‘CHILLED WATER CIRCULATION
CIRCUIT’ SECTION OF CHILLER MANUAL.

SUPPLY PIPING

RETURN PIPING

CHILLER CAPACITY vs. SYSTEM CAPACITY

CHILLER CONDESING UNITS ARE ENGINEERED TO
BE AT APPROX. 80% OF TOTAL SYSTEM CAPACITY.

PIPING AND INSULATION NOTES:

1) FOR COOL ONLY SYSTEMS USE SCH 40 PVC MIN.
FOR REVERSE CYCLE OR ELECTRIC HEAT SYSTEMS
USE SCH 80 PVC, CPVC OR COPPER PIPE.

2) FOR PIPES LESS THAN 1” IN DIAMETER, USE 3/4”
THICK TUBE INSULATION. FOR PIPES EQUAL TO
OR GREATER THAN 1” IN DIAMETER, USE 1” THICK
TUBE INSULATION. FOR 5/8” HOSE, USE 1/2”
THICK TUBE INSULATION.

3) PIPE INSULATION SHOULD BE GLUED AND NOT TIE
WRAPPED. TIE WRAPPING WILL COMPRESS THE
INSULATION AND CAUSE POOR PERFORMANCE.
THERE MUST BE NO AIR POCKETS BETWEEN THE
PIPE AND THE INSULATION. ALL JOINTS MUST
BE GLUED, INSULATION MUST BE AIR TIGHT,

4) WHEN INSULATING FITTINGS, FOLLOW THE MANUFAC—
TURER’S RECOMMENDATION FOR THE APPLICATION
OF TUBE INSULATION. IF INSULATION TAPE IS
USED, FOLLOW THE MANUFACTURER’S SPECS TO
ACHIEVE EQUIVALENT R-VALUE TO INSULATION OF
PIPES. OVERLAP INSULATION WITH TAPE TO INSURE
THAT NO AMBIENT AIR IS IN CONTACT WITH PIPES
OR FITTINGS, INSULATION MUST BE AIR TIGHT.

5) MARINE AIR SYSTEMS STRONGLY RECOMMENDS THE
USE OF 3/4” BALL VALVES AT EACH AIR HANDLER
C1” OVER 24K) TO ASSIST IN START-UP AND OVER-—
ALL SERVICEABILITY OF THE SYSTEM (SEE DETAIL).

6) ENDS OF MAIN AND BRANCH CHILLED WATER LINES
SHOULD BE EXTENDED AND CAPPED. THIS WILL
HELP TO BALANCE THE WATER PRESSURE, ACT AS
A CUSHION AGAINST ‘WATER HAMMERING’, PROVIDE
A CLEAN-OUT PORT, GUARD AGAINST PIPE EROSION
AND PROVIDE PROPER WATER FLOW TO ALL AIR
HANDLERS.

7) SIZE PIPING/HOSE TO AIR HANDLERS AS FOLLOWS:
FROM 4K TO 16K, USE 5/8” MINIMUM I.D.

FROM 18K TO 24K, USE 3/4” MINIMUM I.D.
FROM 36K TO 48K, USE 1” MINIMUM ILD.
(SEE DETAIL FOR 4K—24K AIR HANDLER PIPING)
CHILLER 8) ALL PIPE SIZES ARE IN INCHES.
ENGINE ROOM 2 SPIROVENT™
5 p<
PRESSURE SEAWATER
CAUCE OUTLET WYE STRAINER

WATER LINE

SEAWATER PUMP

SEAWATER STRAINER

SEAWATER SYSTEM NOTE:

SEAWATER SYSTEM (INLET, STRAINER, PUMP)
MUST BE INSTALLED UNDER THE WATER LINE
WITH A CONTINUOUS INCLINE FROM THE
SPEED SCOOP INLET TO THE CHILLER.

SPEED SCOOP
SEA COCK SHUT—OFF VALVE

PRESSURE
GAUGE

CHILLED WATER
CIRCULATION
CIRCUIT PUMP

INLET WITH

FL 10/17/01 ADD SPIROVENT,GUAGES & VALVES,CAD1019—01 DRR | JES
E | 9-15-99 [REV’D PIPING SPECS TO INCLUDE 5/8” HOSE DKM | DKM
G 13/27/02 |EDIT CENTERFOLD AREA,CAD165—02 DRRIJES
C | 5/5/98 [REVISED PIPE SIZES DKM/E_S
B 5/5/98 [REVISED PIPE SIZES DKM/E_S
A | 5/5/98 [REVISED PIPE SIZES DKM/E_S
REV DATE REVISION DWG LAPR

PROPRIETARY NOTE:
DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF TAYLOR MADE ENVIRONMENTAL INC.
ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT
FROM MARINE AIR SYSTEMS INC. SHALL BE CONSIDERED

UNLAWFUL AND CAN BE CONTESTED IN A COURT OF LAW,

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED WITHIN THIS

l 1-1/4 1-1/4
AH—24K—-SL2Z AH-24K-SL2Z *
ORT SALON ISTBD.—INBOARD| FORWARD ‘\
SALON SALON ‘
1-1/2 1-1/2 1-1/4 1-1/4 1
1-1/2 1-1/2 1-1/2
AH—24K-SL2Z
STBD.—OUTBOARD! AH-24K—SL2Z \
SALON GALLEY A
NX
N N
MOM
Thy 1 11/4
EXTEND AND CAP (TYP)
3/4 1
AH—12K—DT2Z AH—12K—DT2Z AH—12K—DT2Z
MID PORT MID—FWD PORT FWD PORT
STATE ROOM STATE ROOM V—BERTH
ht /4 1-1/4 1-1/4 1 1 3/4
NX
11/4 11/4 11/4
a AH—12K—DT2Z AH—12K—DT2Z AH—12K—DT2Z
PRESSURE] wip STBD MID—FWD STBD FWD STBD
GAUGE STATE ROOM STATE ROOM V-BERTH
3/4 1 1
SUGGESTED PIPING TO AIR HANDLERS 4K—24kK
5/8” OR 3/4" PIPE 3/4° BALL VALVE 5/8" MARINE GRADE HOSE
EXPANSION OR HOSE FROM BALL | AND COUPLING WITH DOUBLE/REVERSED
TANK HYXTK VALVES TO CHILLED (SUPPLIED BY 5.5. HOSE CLAMPS

WATER LINES
(SEE NOTE 7)

CUSTOMER) (SUPPLIED BY CUSTOMER)

== RETURN [J Tow =
HWRV ASSEMBLY WITH
J CHECK VALVE, WATER 6 SUPPLY = Ord {th FLOW
PRESSURE REGULATOR, NOTE:
SHUT-OFF VALVE AND PIPING AND 3/4°MPTx5/8"HB 1 /2’MPTx5/8HB
FRESH WATER HOSE BIB FITTINGS (SUPPLIED BY BRASS (SUPPLIED
AIR) TIGHT CUSTOMER) BY MARINE AIR) AIR HANDLER
“7110/97 SAMPLE PIPING SCHEMATIC FOR ; ;
ETS CHILLED WATER SYSTEM Dometic Corporation
>: SHOWING CHILLED WATER LOOP, . .
ET 4 OF 1 AIR HANDLERS AND SEA WATER SYSTEM - Marine Air -
“OKM | DD |. HOO50001G Cruisair - Marine Air - Grunert - Sentry - Tundra

METAL TO PVC FITTINGS: If connections are made between PVC fittings and metal fittings, always
use a male pipe thread on the PVC fitting and a female pipe thread on the metal fitting. Reversing the
type of fittings can cause the PVC to crack if over-tightened.

90° ELBOWS: All PVC piping should be installed with as few 90° elbow fittings as possible.
Excessive bends can cause pressure drop in the system, affecting performance. Every 90° elbow is
equivalent to adding 2’ feet of additional pipe.

MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONAL COMPONENTS

The following are suggested for better maintenance and operation of a chilled water system.

Sight Glass: Installed in the supply or return main pipes of the circulation circuit at an accessible
location, the sight glass will provide visual inspection of the water flow for proper volume or air
pockets.

Strainer: Installed in the return line to the circulation pump to catch debris and particles from
installation of the piping (see diagram in center of this manual). The strainer basket should be made of
a fine mesh material to contain small particles. A clear base strainer could act as a sight glass also.

Ball Valves: Installed at the inlet and outlet of the circulation circuit pump are used to isolate the pump
and access the circuit for maintenance, etc. If using a strainer as mentioned above, install the strainer
between the ball valve and the pump inlet.

Water Pressure Gauges: Two gauges installed in the circulation circuit, one in the supply side and one
in the return side, to monitor continuously for pressure drops in the system (the supply side gauge is
recommended, the return side gauge is mandatory).

Autobleeders: MAS recommends the use of Spirovent® and Spirotop® autobleeders.

The Spirovent is an inline autobleeder. Install the Spirovent in the main return line upstream of the
circulating water pump but downstream of all air handlers, the fill assembly, expansion tank, strainer,
etc. In applications where the system water flow would exceed the maximum recommended flow
rating of the Spirovent, the Spirovent may be installed in a sidestream (i.c., parallel circuit). The
sidestream should be located above the main return line such that air bubbles can easily flow up into
the sidestream. Isolate the Spirovent with ball valves to allow for service. The bottom port of the
Spirovent should ordinarily be plugged. The bottom port may be used to bleed out accumulated debris.

The Spirotop is a single port autobleeder. Install a Spirotop at the top of each return riser. It is
important to ensure positive pressurization at the Spirotop. If the water pressure at the Spirotop is less
than atmospheric pressure, then any autobleeder will actually draw air into the system rather than bleed
air out. Isolate the Spirotop with a ball valve to allow for service.

Spirovent® and Spirotop® are registered trade names of Spirotherm, Inc.

19
FLUSHING THE CIRCULATION CIRCUIT

After the chilled water system has been completely installed, the circulation circuit should be flushed to remove
any contaminants or particles in the piping. Follow these instructions for flushing the circulation circuit:

1.

2.
3.
4

eC PND

Shut off the service valves to the air handlers and autobleeders if installed.

Remove the flexible hose connection from the inlet hose barb on each air handler.

Remove the flexible hose connection from the outlet hose barb on the chilled water circuit.

Attach these two hoses using a hose barb. Do this at each air handler.

NOTE: The circuit may be flushed prior to attaching air handlers by following steps 4-9.

Install a strainer in-line to the suction side of the circulation pump to catch any particles. The strainer can
be permanently installed in the system at this point to provide continuous trapping of any loose
contaminants as well as provide a means to visually inspect water flow to determine air entrapment,
glycol concentrations, etc.

Fill the system circulation circuit with water and run the circulation pump for fifteen minutes.

Turn off the circulation pump and close the service valves to the pump.

Remove and clean the strainer basket.

This procedure (steps 6-8) should be repeated until no particles or contaminants are visible in the strainer
basket.

. Upon completion of the above, drain the circulation circuit and reconnect the air handlers and

autobleeders if installed.

FILLING AND PURGING THE CIRCULATION CIRCUIT

Pre-mix a glycol and fresh water solution per manufacturer’s specifications for your application. Use enough
glycol to prevent freezing of pipes when vessel is not in use, but do not use more glycol than recommended.
Mix the solution in a large container and either use a submersible MAS PML-500 pump (recommended) or use
the circulation circuit pump, priming the pump first, to mtroduce the solution into the circuit pipmg. Follow
these instructions:

1.

11.
12.
13.
14.

Connect hose from submersible pump to bib on water fill valve and open the valve. Or, if using the
circulation pump, prime the pump first then disconnect inlet hose and place it in the solution container.
Another temporary hose can be connected to the manifold where the inlet hose was disconnected, and that
hose should empty into the solution container to complete the chilled water loop.

Turn the air handler circuit breakers ON

Set all the air handler controllers to open their motorized water valves if installed (refer to air handler
control manual). Water valves may be opened manually if no power is available. Access the lever on top
of the valve by removing the rubber boot. NOTE: if air handlers have no water valves then ignore this
instruction.

Locate the bleeder ports on the air handlers on the highest deck.

Loosen the bleeder port on each air handler to allow air and water to drain into the air handlers’
condensate pans.

Start the pump. If a submersible pump is used, do not run the circulation pump at the same time.
Periodically check the condensate pans for proper drainage.

When no more air is coming out of bleeder, and a continuous stream of water is visible, tighten the cap on
the bleeder port.

Repeat steps 5-8 on every remaining air handler working down from the top deck.

. Leak check all fittings and connections at this time. Ifa leak is found, close the fresh water fill valve and

repair the leak. Repeat steps 1-9.

Steps 4-8 may need to be repeated until all air is removed from the circulation circuit.

Turn the air handler circuit breakers OFF.

Turn pump off and reconnect original hose. Close the fresh water fill valve.

The pressure gauge should read between 12-15psig. Use the water regulating valve to adjust system
pressure. See “Fresh Water Fill System”.

For protecting the environment, collect and discard discharged glycol solution in accordance with federal, state
or local regulations.

20
OM

NOISIAdd

Add “MYT 40 LHNOD ¥ NI GALSSLNOD 3G N¥O ONV TN4AMVINO

EET

pO-8¢G0Vo 105150 dl Wye¥o0ud Ol SION dsddV] 70/6/8

GSaXd3SqISNCD 3A TIVHS “ONI SW3LSAS aI¥ JNIYVA WOdd

WoO

00-£9¢0V0 dY¥vVOd OGG MSN YOs Ady 00/00/47

AN3SNOD N3LUYM LNOHLIM SLNEIMLSIG YO AdOd OL LdWALLY ANY

Wod

d00-O0L6—-45d_ dev0d Odd MSN YOs Ady] vO/Z1

SIHL NIHLIM GSNIVINOD NOLWAYOJNI SHL -SLON AdWvlalddodd

|

H

4 “ON| TWLINSAINOYIANS JOVW YOTAVL JO ALYadOdd JHL SI LNSWNOOd
G$L9

“LIND HOV4S NO SYSA09
NI SWVYOVIC ONIMIM
“*XINO S3ONSYAS5Y YO SI

XO@ OYLOATS
TWONIAIGNI JSS
ONIMVAC SIHL

G9onvd 81

CI/N dWAd Y4aLVM G3ATIIHS

sonvo 8h) 11 dWnd Ysl¥m GSTIH9

(H9NVD 81) CI/N dANd YSLVMVSS

Janvs el) TT dad ssalvavas

aYyvOs TIOYMINOO
L# MSTGNVH IV

SNELL

&
>
g

ma wd dco @ TET

§[9[919[9[S[S]9]O

rata
Ned 3NTWA dhao

O/| LYOdSSVd—-HV

‘G40NO€ GNV GSQ0NN0YX9

AldadOud 3a LSNW SLNJNOdWOO TI¥ ‘NMOHS LON

ind GaWNssv SI SLNSNOdNOO TIV OL 3Y¥IM GNNOYS ‘OS TV
“SdWV O@ Ga4d0X4 OL

LON LNG dWNd 3HL YO4 G3ZIS YaxVaYNE LINDYHIO dsaLlvoldsa
V SAVH LSNW (dud) TaNVd AVIdY dANd HOWa ‘S3ZIS
JYIM JONWD OL ONV ALIOVdWNY WNWININ ‘YSNVaNE LINDID
WNWIXYA YO4 Sdl¥1d ViVd LNAWdINOA 3aS “S4d00
WOMLOATA DAGV HLIM ATdWOD LSNW ONIXIM GTAald “ADILON«

dWNd NOLWVINOYID
YalVM daTIHHO

©

SdW¥ OZ G3a4d9xa OL LON INE dANd
SHL x04 d3ZIS Yaxvsds LindHlo dalvoldsd

Yo SAVH ISMN T3N¥d Av1SY dWNd TINVISOdMT (¢
LINDHID

dnd NO (avO1 TINd) SdW¥ OZ d3FOxXa LON Od (Z
"YSTIIHO HOWE LY STYNINASL dd

YALWMWaS OL LOANNOO SQVI1 JYIM SLIHM 9 FJONVYO CL

SSION ddd
SLIOAOET/S LL

GNNOeS

dnd

wo4 Aviad ann Wt Saas

g3azis

WONT aoe
(ddd9-Z)
SIMIM KINO = © SNOLVIS +

SNOWWLS Z o o TWNOILIGaY

)|a-< L — 5-3]

awdsia
zr

(GLVINSNI 3% ~dNW19)

OL GSHOVLLY 32 LSM
YOSNAS YALVM

YALVAH TWNOILdO
a

ISIN| SSLVM YSTONVH lv

TANVd
AV1dSI0

TAT |e-!

BETS) om hale &

@ |Ez1-ane a es &
Cv-+]&

a-e| &)
OF Gx Qep|®

(SALON 33S) NOWWYSdO YadOYd YO4 JOVI NI

SLIHM

MOW1d

SLIHM

AdIS SIHL NO LOANNOO
SLINA YSTIIHO “WNOILIGGY

MOW 1d

dNAd x04 GaZIS

SIM

(dud) TANVd AVISY dd YSLVM GSTIIHO

QIZ1/N

QIZ1/N

Z1/N

1 Z1/N

BIZ1/N

QZ1/N

SLIHM

MOW1d

QI Z1/N

SLIHM

MOW1d

@Il1 ¢# YATGNVH UV
@Il1 @# YSTGNVH UV
QL L# YaTGNVH UV
@IL1 dWNd NOLWINONID
Il1 dWNAd YaLYMV3S
@l1 Z# YSTIHO

ld t# YaTIHIHO

}

dnd YSLVMVsS SdNV OZ dad9x4 OL LON LNG dANNd

SHL ¥O4 QSZIS HanvsHa LINDHIS GALVoIdad

¥Y GAVH ISN TSN¥d AVISY dWNd “INVISOdMT (¢
ALND

dnd NO (a¥o1 Tin4) SdA¥ OZ G359xXa LON Od (Z
"SSTIIHS HOWE LY STYNINASL dANd

MALVMVaS OL LOSNNOO SGV31 3uIM SLIHM % JONVHO (1

‘SSION dud
SLIOAOET/S LL

dg LSMW M3Y¥9S ONILNNOW OVIdL iLNVLYOdNI

aNnowd

dnd

yO4 Aviad annd Sakis

dazis

WOX—1L1—8od

(dud9-Z)
Saul XINO = © SNOLVIS +
SNOILWIS Z o o TWNOILIGaY

Tek: [}—,.5 @

SNYO

dANAd 404 CaZIS

* IINVd Y4MOd S,dIHS

SIaIM,

Tat |8-!

SNYO

SLIHM

Mow 1d

SLIHM YAMOd

Adis SIHL NO LOANNOO
SLIINA YSTIIHOD WNOLLICAV

(A9NVS 8L) ZI/N dWAd SalvM CATHHO

aonvd 8l) 11 dWad Y3lvmM GSTIHO

Fonvd 8l) f1I/N dANNd SSLVMVsS

Gonve 81) 11 dnd

YALVMWSS

MOw1d

— owl OWN
aie = Q=p- [8

(SALON 33S) NOlWasdO YadOYd YO4 JOvVId NI
ag LSAW M3YOS ONILNNOW OVldl LLNVLYOdWI

(dud) TANVd AVISY dWNd YaLVMVaS

DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC
CONTROLLER (DDC) #1

STAGE #1 UNIT
SYSTEM CONTROL
SWITCH PLATE

RETURN SHOWN FROM REAR
—— SS SHIELDED CABLE, FIELD JOBS - 3a © Ted
SENSOR [- WIRING IF REMOTE SWITCH
a -— A , A
| vr “]_LED DISPLAY | (WIRING. IF SWITOH. IS, MOUNTED
| | [J (I im iim ON ELECTRIC BOX LID.
(ell et (el a4 —— Je ——4 —
Stee ! [2] MASTER FILM FREEZE RETURN ae 1
V
SENSOR | [o] $
| i |. DIGITAL_ DIAGNOSTIC He
MIXED ouTLET | CONTROLLER (DDC) 5
"RE SESH | | -
ay —_— uy
oe = El, z=
we oe USED ONLY WITH ez} |O} 8
wy a ELECTRIC HEAT OR | Ea] loli
a a WITH THE CWMC | Ee} [oh FS
xm r
GS 3B |
om oe | cw SwP wy |
o 3 clTT cour PRESSURE FLOW
fa a | SWITCHES SWITCH
Ww uw It NOTE:
a a CONNECT TO CWMC al pulps DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
- o IF USED, THEN SWITCH allo TO ENABLE LOW PRESSURE
ts is PLATE MAY BE REMOVED ? DETECTION (LPE).
ce &
= = IL = veroy [REVERSING
aT veto VALVE
Po ELOW_I (OPTIONAL)
| —P—PUMP_WIRING NOTE: FOR MULTIPLE CHILLER
APPLICATIONS, TWO PUMP RELAY PANELS MAY
BE USED AS SHOWN. HOWEVER, PUMPS MAY
BE WIRED DIRECTLY TO THE #1 CHILLER (AS
IN A SINGLE CHILLER INSTALLATION). IF THIS
IS DONE AND THE #1 CHILLER IS TAKEN OFF
LINE FOR ANY REASON, MOVE THE PUMPS
TO THE #2 CHILLER. PUMPS LARGER THAN
3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP. SEE PRP NOTES.
DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC STAGE #2 UNIT
CONTROLLER (DDC) #2 OMIT PLATE
SHOWN FROM REAR
RETURN
WATER SHIELDED CABLE, FIELD 4805 30 Tea
SENSOR WIRING IF REMOTE SWITCH
L_ TO AIR | es | LED DISPLAY PLATE IS USEB, OR FACTORY
HANDLER #2 WIRING IF SWITCH IS MOUNTED
| im im im ON ELECTRIC BOX LID
CONTROL 4 ot RED \
I |fe] fe (el fa She | — sie
TO AIR Siete | |= MASTER FILM FREEZE RETURN 7 BLACK i
WT
-——. SENSOR | [e] ,
HANDLER. if 5 | “ DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC He
CONTROLLER (DDC) :
| je es
ae I aE
I ze ole 2| =
I La) |o| eg
AIR | Ee] [2 fet
HANDLER #1 | |
CWP ‘SWP VL
WATER --——- coMP PRESSURE FLOW
VALVE | SWITCHES SWITCH
I NOTE:
eoONNECT TO GWM lalsis| DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
FAN . TO ENABLE LOW PRESSURE
( otor PLATE MAY BE REMOVED : rn DETECTION (LPE).
| — REVERSING
| Lo — veltow VALVE
Lit — —j_ b — — — — 4L0"_] (op TIONAL)
DATE:
D ti C ti 12/15/98 2—STAGE MCW CHILLER
ometic orpora ion SCALE N.S SAMPLE WIRING DIAGRAM INCLUDING:
aE _ Marine Air _ TEE DDC CONTROLS, AH—-PASSPORT I/O & PRP’S
DKM 115—230VAC/50—60HZ/1¢
MEG so : . DRAWN BY: |APPROVED BY: | DRAWING NO:
APE] Cruisair - Marine Air - Grunert - Sentry - Tundra | DKM H2510002H

du ‘Ad udv

Z| 06001S-€62 SLN
OZ LO LO¢H a MSEANN LYvd | MAY -Ag OMG

66/6/E

‘A1VOS
‘alvd

.S)
Awd

TOYNLNOD OCG Sl/ZH09-0S/OVANES
uY/I/S 09-7CMOW

Ity euuey| uOol}e10dJO4 919WO0G

FTOAO ASHSARY YO ONIMIM TWNOILdO
XOg NI 9M GNNOYS OL SSYIM GNNOYNS TV

GBLON JSIMY3HLO SSIINN StF JYVY S3YIM TV “JLON

"SHOLOVLNOD dWNd HLIM SLO SWNMO dWnd vas -

YO ‘ddd V JyINOAY dHb/E NVHL
MFO SdNNd “(dud) TANVd AV1dy
dWnd YO dWNd YO4 S3MIM 3ZIS
SALON

BLON 33S ‘ONIMIM Cad

dWAd “Ould

4aZIS JYIM YO4
-— 3lV¥ld SWVN 34S

“LA ano uaMOd
Z1 1/09-0¢
L1 OWA O£z

‘WMO,

HIM aasn LON
XO8 SIMLIITA NI
GRLNNOW SI HOLS
dl ONIIIM ANOLOY4

IEEE)
SUH _{
yovla 7

‘aasn S| alvld
HOLIMS 3LOWSY
Al SNISIM O73
Flava G3013HS

‘(ad1) NOI
AUNSSIYd MOT TIGYNA OL
CAWAVYOONd Ja ISNW 9Gd

SION

(WNOLLdO)
SAWA
ONISMAAZY

ywaed WOds NMOHS
aLW1d HOLIMS.

TOYLNOS WALSAS.
— 1

PT a 0 es Be Tene J
a oe

SEINE
SLIM
Owe
SONVAO
ama

Zi# BONWHO
Zig SLIHM

Zl# NAINO
THs
Yovle

Zl# Howe

Woo

TH SONVET
Zl# SIH

on

sghalanl
Wied
Oo

aH
wove

(oda) YaATIONLNOO
JISONDVIG TWLIOIG s

[2]

NYMISY () (| MaisyN aes
Ao og [eI

(EU fa tay

+|NOILISOd S¥H
Awiae Levis [al <TF SUM |

cle owe

YOSNAS

ane |

pati
YalVM
fake

gasn al

Lou
OWMO OL

YOSNAS
YaLVM
Ia1LNo
daxin

TH Te

ZF ALIH

SOVLS HOWE OL

ONINECUSY YaLYM JH. 40 SALVLNaSSadaa

“NOLLWHAdO HadOdd YO4 SLINN

OWMS SNISN JI GadS3N INO
L 39vLS NO G3d3aN 41NO

MalV¥M ONULWINOMID HLIM LOVLNOO TWWYSHL TTY 40 WW3elS NMOd d30v1d 3d
NIVLNIVA, LSM, HOSN3S YaLWM NYOL3Y LSNW YOSN3S YalvM LTLNO GaXxi

MOW/MOS HOI GOOOLSIH SMA “TIONDS *ZMOW NOS ZZLOLOZH OMG “44

O4W | yd yO-8€SdvVoO'GuVO”d 94d MAN YOs Ady | 0/2/8 ‘M140 LUND V NI GALSSLNOO 3a NYO

Sar | MWY L0-8Zb0VO'SPZMOW SQN TIONI OL ‘NOSAC ASH | 10/60/40 CNV TN4MWINN GAYSCISNOO 3d TIVHS NOLLWYOdHOO:

LO-SEECVvO‘ILON LA ILAd GaXxIW Gagay | LO/F2/eo OLLSWOd WOus LNSSNOO N&LLTM LOOHLIAA
ALNGIULSIG YO AdOO OL IdWALLW ANY ‘NOILVHOduOO

Saft_| MWY.

sar 00-LSPCVO‘NOILISOd AV13u v# NO OSA GADNVHO | _OO/9L/8

srw OAWOd JO ALYadOUd SHL SI LNSWNOOC SIHL NIHLIM

fils \zlalo

ba] GANIVLNOO NOILVWYOSNI SHL ‘ALON AMVLalddOud

NOLLdIY9S3d NOISIARY aivd

Ydv | Sd

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV} DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIC
CORPORATION, ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE Cc 417/00 | REV TO NEW DDC BOARD,CAD257-00 DKM | DKM
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC D | 03/21/01 | ADD CWMC OTS/MIXED SENSOR NOTES,CAD335-01 RMW | JES
CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED UNLAWFUL AND E | 03/21/01 | INCLUDE 7.5/10TON COMPS,CAD335/36-01 RMW | JES
CAN BE CONTESTED INA COURT OF LAW. F | 5/26/04 | REVISE DESIGNATORS ON CONTACTOR,CAD353-04 DRR | MFG
G 8/7/04 REVISED FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG
MIXED OUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST
Se La ——
ONLY NEEDED ON STAGE 1. . i
ONLY NEEDED IF USING CWMC. rs) 8 5 8 we a g g
io) 1 ae
RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN oy] 4 | 73 5 a} 5) &
THERMAL CONTACT WITH CIRCULATING WATER e O 2 eo eye
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WATER RETURNING TI T2 Ta = ib & =
TO EACH STAGE. 8 5 =| 2] =
LS BOIS 8 &]5
Sian a} 8) 3
WHITE #12 | ol ELS
BLACK FI 3] =|§ 230 VAC
50—60/3¢
ser |] smc] (Sa POWER
WaTER ee [Raed +2 St L1
TO CWwMC
IF USED — T—] 7 7] @ L2
aUeseliO 1 7 @ L3
TT]. w > ol
Sag weer ily 22
a 2
| O 2e GND
| I [ex
| = SEE DATA
| PLATE FOR
| WIRE SIZE
|
|
\ |
I n
1 T
T T |
YELLOW ~l 4 |
ed | oof LI Ios ec
| rT 8 ls Fa] SYSTEM CONTROL 5 fal . &
Fa | SHOWN PROM REAR . - & -
| wamwmomme) =) | 2] =
| S009 - FAD - TASH o o fa °
REVERSING | 4 2) Be
VALVE & E fay a
(OPTIONAL) | a a} =] #2
NOTE; u4-—— — ft _
DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED T
TO ENABLE LOW PRESSURE
DETECTION (LPE). Loyietoeo caBLe
FIELD WIRING IF
REMOTE SWITCH
A sack 11 PLATE IS USED,
WHITE L FACTORY WIRING IF
POWER WIRE SIZE GREEN SWITCH IS MOUNTED
IN ELECTRIC BOX.

NOT USED WITH

L1 /TIL2/T2L3 /TAGRND CWMC

CIRC. PUMP
FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE

I24K—72K |10GA |10GA |10GA }126A

90K 8GA |8GA | 8GA |10GA

NOTES:

slack LI
{ware L

GREEN GND)

120K 6GA | 6GA | BGA | 8GA

RELAY PANEL (PRP).

NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN BOX
---- OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE

SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR PUMP

PUMPS LARGER

THAN 3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP, OR
SEA PUMP CWMC OTS WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.

Dometic Corporation Marine Air

MCW24-120K-RC

230VAC/50-60Hz/3°, DDC CONTROL

DATE: 2/10/99 |[DWGBY: RMW_ | PART NUMBER: g
SCALE: NTS |APRBY: RP 293-510078 [5

H2010171

REV

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR

WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIC

CORPORATION. ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE E | 03/12/01 | INCLUDED 7.5T & 10 TON COMPS,CAD336-01 RMW | JES

WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC F 8/21/03 | ADDED 150K INFORMATION,CAD647-03 DRR | MFG

oo a CONTE Sinn COURT OR LAWFUL AND G 9/2/03 | REMOVED 150K VERSION,CAD659-03 DRR | MFG
, H 8/9/04 | REVISED FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG

REF. H2010198 FOR NO NEUTRAL

MIXED OUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST
BE PLACED DOWN STREAM OF ALL
UNITS FOR PROPER OPERATION. SY
ONLY NEEDED ON STAGE 1. gala
ONLY NEEDED IF USING CWMC. OG N) BO c is ays
TI] 12 Pye «|
O sole
RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN OQ |= Syeype
THERMAL CONTACT WITH CIRCULATING WATER od vw Mile =| | &
REPRESENT/ F THE WATER RETURNING 5 a) =] =
TO EACH STAGE: SH 8 HYS fo) ol
wif GH} to
WHITE #12 Is) Le 3 ey) 2
BLACK #12 a E a
BE 5 380 VAC
5 a SOHZ/3¢
MIXED Wel E] RETURN 3 z O12 /-
OUTLET | | WATER |é WATER
WATER aa E| SENSOR Qe N
to cwwc | | | __ SENSOR Cc)
IF USED “OD et 4
SUeeeL) e[) am (J == — oar Qe L2
DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC Qe L3
CONTROLLER (DDC) | —
5 -—
B | fe) 2 @ GND
+
Ole, =
oi ©
ali | = Oo] SEE NAME
A =
| PLATE FOR
ow [| | WIRE SIZE
ollie) 6) |
| = |
| | |
1 T
i} | |
veLLow, _| w al o a
rT veroy_ JL | g dl olek! ay SB} 8)
| 5 gg 15 SYSTEM CONTROL =] & we %
SWITCH PLATE ira 2 5 g£
LI | SHOWN FROM REAR i i - te
| commen) =| =| Ef =
FS 4000 2 390 = TAH ra rad z fay
REVERSING | io ied L ~
VALV a} el el &
(OPTIONAL) | eS ed
NOE L
DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
ek eer i.
POWER WIRE SIZE ; Feud WIRING IF
REMOTE SWITCH
L1/TYL2/TALS /T3IGRND FACTOR? WininG iF
SWITCH IS MOUNTED
24K —72K |12GA |12Ga |126a |12GA IN ELECTRIC. BOX
A eiack 1 NOT USED WITH
90K — |1oca |10ca |10ca fi2Ga {ware 12
GREEN GND
120K |8ca |8ca | 8cA |10Ga

CIRC. PUMP

BLACK

|_ WHITE.

NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED

GREEN GN

= SEA PUMP

ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN BOX

OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE

FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE

NOTES:
SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR PUMP

RELAY PANEL (PRP). PUMPS LARGER

THAN 3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP, OR
CWMC OTS WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.

Dometic Corporation

Marine Air

MCW24-120K-RC
380VAC/50HZ/3@ W/NEUTRAL, DDC CONTROL
DATE: 2/11/99 |DWG BY: RMW PART NUMBER: |©
SCALED NTS ~|APREY;RP—| 293510077 (= 2010173 [6 H

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIC
CORPORATION. ANY ATTEMPTTO GOPY OR DISTRIBUTE |_A 113/00 | REMOVED PRP OPTION PER DCR#CAD018-00 MJS | DKM
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC B | 4/17/00 | REV TO NEW DDC BOARD,CAD257-00 DKM | DKM
itiabelehialetas Soee eR ON AWFUL AND C | 04/13/01 | ADD MIX SENSOR NOTE/120K,CAD335/36-01 RMW | JES
: D 8/9/04 | REVISED FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG
REF. H2010173 FOR WITH NEUTRAL
MIXED OUTLET WATER:
SENSOR MUST BE PLACED
DOWN STREAM OF ALL UNITS. BLACK #12
FOR PROPER OPERATION. WHITE chm
ONLY NEEDED ON STAGE 1. } | i] a
SA Hdl. a8
ONLY NEEDED IF USING L? LT TH] 12 T3 ° alle
cwne. 230VAC SECONDARY e Kd |S S| 212
RETURN WATER SENSOR TRANSFORMER EB | Ele
MUST MAINTAIN THERMAL ui L2 L3 5 =| | 2
WATER REPRESENTATIVEOP PEP H9S  seI°
THE WATER RETURNING TO J Lig CH wale 3580—460V
EACH STAGE. QI] ~]
ol #| x 50-60/3¢
APES
. EEE POWER
a+-+—L1
WHITE #12
-—L2
MIXED SUPPLY s w =
OUTLET | | WATER RETURN @ = L3
WATER, SENSOR| SENSOR a = enn
TO CWMC
IF USED —— {| 7] =2 SEE NAME
° = PLATE FOR
el Ne 2 oe 7 WIRE SIZE
al DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC _ |
CONTROLLER (DDC) oe r
|
i |
|
| L
|
Asie |
Ld \ |
it |
im T
TT [ry
YELLOW My s S 5 SYSTEM CONTROL
oS Vy z| =] 3 ae | SWITCH PLATE aloo a
vetow | I S Ze SHOWN FROM REAR WW i a ist
| i iy | ° a 3 °
I 5 | e} oc} os] oe
| LP HP FS | 5 & ~ E
| | a ee
REVERSING i NOTE: at al oS) Bf 8) Bl
VALVE Beas ermemwe (/L_ fy of ol
(OPTIONAL) 1 DETECTION (LPE) — “| =] e] @
ly oO oO
POWER WIRE SIZE 1 re slack LA Bee PN SHIELDED CABLE
ee ee WHITE L2° :
Li /THL2/TAL3/TAGRND 1 RELAY PANEL PLATE. IS USED,
FACTORY WIRING IF.
p+k-72k fr0ca fro foc aca | ! FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE i sircrrie’@ox
I I NOT USED WITH
90K 8GA | 8GA | 8GA }10GA | | CWMC
LA pack, Lt TO_3 PHASE
120K |eca | 6ca | 6ca [aca po wie [2 SEA PUMP
RELAY PANEL =

NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED

ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN

BOX

OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE

NOTES:

SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR PUMP
PUMPS LARGER
THAN 3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP, OR
CWMC OTS WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.

RELAY PANEL (PRP).

Dometic Corporation

Marine Air

MCW24-72K-RC
380-460VAC/50-60Hz/30, NO NEUT. DDC CONTROL

DATE: 12/15/99 [DWG BY: RMW | PARTNUMBER: [©
SCALE: NTS |APRBY: ES 293-510136 3 H2010198 G

D

Tohietven CABLE
FIELD WIRING IF
REMOTE SWITCH
PLATE IS USED,
FACTORY WIRING IF
SWITCH IS MOUNTED
IN ELECTRIC BOX,

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIG
CORPORATION. ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE A 5/26/04 | REVISED DESIGNATORS ON CONTACTOR,CAD355-04 DRR | MFG
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC B 8/7/04__| REV FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG
CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED UNLAWFUL AND
CAN BE CONTESTED IN A COURT OF LAW.
REF. H2010173 FOR WITH NEUTRAL OR H2010198 FOR WITH TRANSFORMER
7 8
nS | S]s}s
IWS | BO a a} els
oy] ? [le #] 2) 3
e OF |=
Ti) | 12 | |Ta2 L1 DEDICATED
OES B95 230V DDC
SHES POWER
BLACK #12
WHITE #12
SUPPLY rH s80—460v
G] RETURN -
WATER |e! [é . a
a il [Be Boewusr oc proces | | | = 50--60/3#
5 DETECTION (LPE). 3 5 E
woome || (a IP EEOC hey ———— —— + ° | oND
S) pa, moves | SEE NAME
PLATE FOR
gS
| WIRE SIZE
|
|
|
|
|
| S| S} os} Sl
I Fs]
i | re] ray a
I t ee ee
| |
i. !
_
ie 43} mg cae.
| | & 2 Fs | SHOWN FROM REAR
| vorae serie sere
I | |
REVERSING | | |
VALVE rt
(OPTIONAL) i |
/ =
|
It
rd
|
It
It
rd
|
It
It
rd
|
It

NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED

BLACK

WHITE.

FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE

BLACK
WHITE

Li TO
iw

CIRC. PUMP
OR PUMP.

RELAY PANEL

L1 TO CIRC. PUMP
OR PUMP.

L2

ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN BOX

OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE

RELAY PANEL

NOTE:

SIZE WIRE FOR PUMP

OR PUMP RELAY PANEL
(PRP). PUMPS LARGER

THEN 3/4 HP REQUIRE
A PRP.

Dometic Corporation

Marine Air

SCW/MCW DDC, 380-460VAC/50-60HzZ/3
NO NEUTRAL WITH DEDICATED 230V POWER FOR DDC

DATE:

9/7/00

DWG BY: MJS

PART NUMBER:

SCALE:

NTS

APR BY: JES

293-510172

= H1510016 [2 B

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIC
CORPORATION, ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE H 1/22/02. | CONTACTOR TO RELAY,ADD RESISTOR,CAD062-02 DRR | PJM
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC J | 10/16/03 | CORRECTED WIRE GUAGE,CAD764-03 DRR | GLD
etnies See COUR TONER EME AND K | 11/17/03 | REVISED WIRE SIZE TABLE,CAD807-03 DRR | MFG
, L 7/29/04 | SHOW FREQ DRIVE AS GENERIC ENTITY,CAD512-04 DRR | MFG
M 8/9/04 | REVISED FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG
SYSTEM CONTROL
SWITCH PLATE
SHOWN FROM REAR |  sonwe sosmuea seve
MIXED SUPPLY 7m : :
OUTLET WATER |e] [E} Rete
WATER SENSOR|*| [8] SENSOR
TO CWMC SENSOR
IF USED -—-—
MIXED OUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST |
BE PLACED DOWN STREAM OF ALL
UNITS FOR PROPER OPERATION. l
ONLY NEEDED FUSING CHMC. of Waoa
RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN [e] (2) =| — — 7 if{\~ —
THERMAL CONTACT WITH CIRCULATING WATER Lage! MASTER FMT FREEZE. RETURN) Op t
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WATER” RETURNING of 7
. “= DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC ° SHIELDED CABLE
CONTROLLER (0DC) ort FIELD WIRING IF
ee = REMOTE SWITCH
to ee Ta ro PLATE IS USED,
IE Ir IB IF f 0 fice FACTORY WIRING IF
5 PE 1c SWITCH IS MOUNTED
ry E ‘al it IN ELECTRIC BOX.
= 2 NOT USED WITH
CWMC.
cwR ‘SP ike
COMP
NOTE:
DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
TO ENABLE LOW PRESSURE
DETECTION (LPE).
allOllaligiiglialiolie
i p OMPLI CHP LT SHPLI VP ’
| | =
| |
BLK #12 | |
WHT #12 | |
| |
| |
1 1
T T
ee veuow_] | uo
fo a / ) oP pate LP fd “| 2) 3] EH
| TOSHIBA | SQUARE-D/TELEMECANIQUE “| op =F
| FREQUENCY DRVE | qt FREQUENCY DRIVE UI
a 3 2 LP] |HP] |Fs
| CONTROL CONNECTONS | ol | CONTROL CONNECTIONS SERN
| EITArTIACTS I Z| ee a a VALVE
| “est ant #1 a] S| a] 2 (OPTIONAL)
| I !
| L + fay BLACK Li
| | i WHITE L
| | | GREEN GND
| sR | wissen Lt
Looor tt rit L , = CIRC. PUMP
H H t! FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE
. tor ‘ BLACK ts
i GREEN (SEE_CHART) Tt aaa CNU
11 —s Iv
LL. BLACK (SEE CHART) = SEA PUMP
~ NOTES:
NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR PUMP
* 9 ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN BOX RELAY PANEL (PRP). PUMPS LARGER
L ---—-—- OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE THAN 3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP, OR
= 24% ALTERNATE WIRING FOR FREQ. DRIVESt CWMC OTS WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.
COMP (*NOTE: L1/L3 USED FOR INPUT POWER)
POWER WIRE SIZE - 7 7 -
i fe foo Te Ts Tow Dometic Corporation Marine Air
24K—48K |10GA [10GA |12G4 ]110GA ]10GA4 [1064 [126A
60K—72K |8GA | 8CA | 10GA]]10GA]10GA]10GA]126GA MCW24-120K-RCDDC
20K [oo [ome [on Poon foo Joos fro 230VAC/50-60Hz/3@ WITH FREQ DRIVE
120K | 6GA ]6GA | 8GA }]6GA | 6GA | 6GA | BCA DATE: 5/13/99 |DWG BY: RMW PART NUMBER: |Q >
im
SCALE: NTS |APRBY: ES 293-510097 = H2010186 ir M

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETICG
CORPORATION. ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE F | 11/27/01 | REPLACE CONTACTOR WITH RELAY,CAD1 183-01 DRR | PJM
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC G | 12/12/01 | MOVE RESISTOR,CAD1241-01 DRR | PJM
CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED UNLAWFUL AND H | 01/06/03 | ADDED RESISTOR,CAD01 1-03 DRR | JES
CAN BE CONTESTED IN A COURT OF LAW. J_|_7/29/04_| SHOW FREQ DRIVE AS GENERIC ENTITY,CAD511-04 DRR | MFG
K 8/9/04 | REVISED FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG
MIXED SUPPLY —] RETURN
OUTLET WATER |6] |Z] WATER HoTHWE J9STHOD wETEVE
WATER SENSOR|#| [8] SENSOR SYSTEM CONTROL | 1009 = 9A@ = TASH
SENSOR SWITCH PLATE =
SHOWN FROM REAR T
1
CA
Tocwwo] pall.
IF USED ml | a, ol <<
of Wee er il 0 gla} S
fo] Hien tr to —p-—— b}a
Sa MASTER HUM FREEZE RETURN! © 7] T
( ote a
DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC One SHIELDED CABLE
CONTROLLER (DDC) on FIELD WIRING IF
a ~ REMOTE SWITCH
uD Ere —_ PLATE IS USED,
E TF | Te 8 [o, FACTORY WIRING IF
se ole SWITCH IS MOUNTED
IE all ole IN ELECTRIC BOX.
MIXED OUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST — 2 NOT USED WITH
See BBA A CHM.
ONLY NEEDED ON STAGE 1. . COMP cur SHP vw
ONLY NEEDED IF USING CWMC.
RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN.
THERMAL CONTACT WITH CIRCULATING WATER
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WATER RETURNING
TQ EACH STAGE.
allo alg
° i g wa OMPLI Ci PL EV ?
BLK #12 | I ta
WHT #12 | | =
| |
| |
| |
30 | |
POWER
SUPPLY] | |
al Ss | !
lel: te | '
sfele veuow} } I ul 2] 8
FREQUENCY DRIVE lel 4 al a]
SQUARE-D/ TELEMECANIQUE &] O15 .
s mm ed te NOTE:
CONTROL CONNECTIONS © “ Bee] 2] eg te} lye DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
g alElS] x] x TO ENABLE LOW PRESSURE
8 el Els] a] a REVERSING DETECTION (LPE).
| VALVE
TOSHIBA CONTROL CONNECTIONS } (OPTIONAL)
ae a
Snot T 7 | fav Black 1
u J i WHITE
i GREEN GND!
LiW213 6 T1273_¢ aa
A , - CIRC. PUMP
FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE
M1 13 suack 1
it WHITE, L
BLACK (SEE CHART FOR SIZE) T2 ii GREEN GND
WHITE _(SEE_CHART FOR SIZE cL V =e
RED (SEE CHART FOR SIZE) COMP =
GREEN _(SEE_CHART FOR SIZE: + - SEA PUMP
= NOTES:
NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED - SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR PUMP
ALL GROUND WIRES TO GROUND LUG IN BOX RELAY PANEL (PRP). PUMPS LARGER
-—-- OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE THAN 3/4HP REQUIRE A PRP, OR
coe ee ALTERNATE WIRING FOR FREQ. DRIVES CWMC OTS WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.

POWER WIRE Sze Dometic Corporation Marine Air

I /11-2/79.3/TIcRND
b4k—72k fioca frase |i 06a fi2ca MCW24-120K-RC/CL, 230VAC/50-60Hz/3°
30K _ [86a | 86a | sca [rose DDC WITH FREQUENCY DRIVE
120K }6GA | 66a | 6GA | BGA DATE: 5/10/99 |DWG BY: RMW PART NUMBER: |© >
SCALE, NTS |APRBY. ES | 293510098 [= 2010184 & K

PROPRIETARY NOTE: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED
WITHIN THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF DOMETIG
CORPORATION. ANY ATTEMPT TO COPY OR DISTRIBUTE
WITHOUT WRITTEN CONSENT FROM DOMETIC
CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED UNLAWFUL AND
CAN BE CONTESTED IN A COURT OF LAW.

MIXED OUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST

BE PLACED DOWN STREAM OF ALL

UNITS FOR PROPER OPERATION.

ONLY NEEDED ON STAGE 1.

ONLY NEEDED IF USING CWMC.

RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN

REV| DATE REVISION DESCRIPTION DWG | APR
D_ | 04/24/00 | REV FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD274-00 RMW | JES
E | 03/16/01 | ADD JUMPER NOTE TO DRIVE,CAD319-01 RMW | JES
F | 7/24/01 | CORRECT AWG'S,TITLE BLOCK,CAD747-01 BAP | PJM
G 8/7/04 | REV FOR NEW DDC BOARD,CAD538-04 DRR | MFG

THERVAL CONTACT WITH! CIRCULATING WATER MIXED SUPPLY | i RETURN Howwe JonTHOD WaTEVe
REPRESENTATIVE OUTLET WATER Ji] |2] WATER SYSTEM CONTROL | 4002 "386 = Tea
WATER SENSOR]# 3) SENSOR SWITCH PLATE
SENSOR SHOWN FROM REAR T 1 T
SSI
To cwac | _ aaa
IF USED 7 a! S| =
Loy LI
° (Fy Fy Ey ° x} =| S
SI fel tet ea ——_- —| t— =F a
MASTER HILIM) FREEZE RETURN 201} I
[2] ot v
SET oS
DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC Orne SHIELDED CABLE
CONTROLIER (DDC) bala FIELD WIRING IF
a, _ REMOTE SWITCH
" PLATE IS USED,
oY FACTORY WIRING IF
Fe SWITCH IS MOUNTED
a IN ELECTRIC BOX.
MIXED QUTLET WATER SENSOR MUST. NOT USED WITH
BE PLACED DOWN STREAM OF ALL. CWMC.
ONLY NEEDED IF USING CWMC.
RETURN WATER SENSOR MUST MAINTAIN
THERMAL CONTACT WITH CIRCULATING WATER
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WATER RETURNING
TO EACH STAGE.
allOHO OYVOWO
a u 12 COMA Cl SHPl uw ?
BLK #12 | 22
WHT #12 | -
ee |
POWER L1 4
SUPPLY L2 4 |
w/NEUTRAL L3
GROUND 6 af alg} |
al oy? YELLOW
ola uf SO] x
A \ od ea ed YELLOW. || =| 2] 2 4s
FREQUENCY DRIVE 5 Ele =e) a] 4g
SQUARED TELEMECANIQUE 7 a
CONTROL CONNECTIONS sg alate] ol «
AL vOut aa 3 Se up| |HP NOTE:
| alE]S] xl ys DDC MUST BE PROGRAMMED
© a e]a] =| = REVERSING | TO ENABLE (Pe) PRESSURE
DETECTION (LPE).
TOSHIBA CONTROL CONNECTIONS (OPTIONAL)
st _ cc ro
IIS
ul
ta —-t a
| GREEN _GNDJ
L r CIRC. PUMP
/ © FIELD WIRING, SEE NOTE
T1 T3
BLACK,
i WHITE,
BLACK {SEE CHART FOR SIZE) [| T2. i GREEN
WHITE (SEE CHART FOR SIZE. tT V =
RED (SEE CHART FOR SIZE: COMP =
CREEN (SEE_CHART FOR SIZE) -
NOTE: SEA PUMP

NOTE: ALL WIRES ARE #18 UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED

ail

— — — OPTIONAL WIRING FOR REVERSE CYCLE

SIZE WIRES FOR PUMP OR
PUMP RELAY PANEL (PRP).
PUMPS LARGER THAN 3/4HP

REQUIRE A PRP,OR CWMC OTS

WITH PUMP CONTACTORS.

POWER WIRE SIZE TABLE

Li/tilte/ta3/tasRND

Dometic Corporation

Marine Air

I24K—72K |12GA 126A |12GA 1264

90K — |roga |10G4 10a |1 264

SCW/MCW24-120K-RC/CL, 380VAC/50H2/38 W/NEUT
DDC WITH TOSHIBA FREQUENCY DRIVE

120K |8GA |8GA | 8GA ]10GA

DATE:

2/5199 |DWG BY: RMW

SCALE:

NTS APR BY: RP

"pe3-510082 (¢ 1510001

REV

DDC - Digital Diagnostic Control

SYSTEM CONTROL SWITCH
(SHOWN FROM REAR)

HOTIWE JONTHOS METEYE
JOOS = FAO - TASH

]_LED DISPLAY

HAL

TIT

:

[5]

Ie]
o ‘cin
RED |
ry wn
IB Ob I “
MIXED OUTLET ; me pe
WATER OR ELEC on SHIELDED CABLE:
HEAT SENSOR E al : a) FIELD WIRING IF
REMOTE SWITCH
USED ONLY WITH cw | ow | wy PLATE IS USED,
cour FACTORY WIRING IF
WITH THE CWMC SWITCH IS MOUNTED
ON ELECTRIC BOX LID.

CONNECT
TO CWMC
IF USED

OVOVPOVOTOPOHO}O}}O
l l [#] NUMBERS IN BOXES

EN 2] REFER TO TEXT BELOW
POWER PUMPS

DIGITAL DIAGNOSTIC CONTROL (DDC)

Follow these instructions to connect and set the programmable parameters of the DDC circuit board(s).
All wires connected to DDC terminal block should have captive fork or ring type terminal connections.

1. With main circuit breaker off, connect the System Control Switch wires to the circuit board as
shown in the above diagram (if the switch is located on the electric box then it is already wired).

2. Connect pump or Pump Relay Panel (PRP) wires. Wires connected to pumps should be tightly
crimped and insulated with “heat shrink” wire wrap. Pumps larger than 3/4HP (559 watts) require a
dedicated PRP. Each PRP should have its own circuit breaker sized for the pump, but not to exceed
20 amps.

3. Connect main power supply from a dedicated circuit breaker; see unit data plate for electrical
specifications.

4. With the System Control Switch tumed OFF, turn on the chiller’s circuit breaker. The DDC circuit
board will briefly flash its software revision (e.g. “A32”) on its LED display, and then it will go
blank.

5. All critical DDC programmable parameters are preset at the factory. These parameters can be
viewed by pressing the SELECT button and can then modified by pressing the SET button. If you
wish to change any of them, only do so while the System Control Switch from the OFF position.
Please refer to the DDC Programmable Parameters section below for complete information and
instructions on how to modify each programmable parameter.

VERY IMPORTANT: Proper setting of all the DDC Circuit Board programmable parameters must be
completed and verified before starting the system! Please see the DDC Programmable Parameters
section below for details on how to check and set the DDC programmable parameters. See also the
DDC Operations Manual (L-2281) for more detailed information.

29
DDC Specifications

e The DDC revision number is displayed for two seconds after the circuit breaker is switched on.

e The return water in (“rtn”) and supply water out (“SUP”) temperatures are alternately displayed
while the system is operating.

e Seawater and chilled water pumps with more than 3/4HP (559 watts) must be controlled through a
PRP because the relay on the DDC is not designed to handle the amp load of a larger pump.

e The circulation pump runs continuously when the chiller power switch is on in heat or cool.

e The retum water sensor controls the aquastat and is plugged into the DDC socket labeled
“RETURN”.

e The supply water sensor is a safety device that monitors freeze stat and high limit temperatures in
reverse cycle chillers and is plugged into the DDC socket labeled “FREEZE”. The freeze stat opens
at 38°F (3.3°C), closes at 50°F (10.0°C) and is ignored in heat mode. The high limit switch opens
at 125°F (51.7°C), closes at 110°F (43.3°C) and is ignored in cool mode.

DDC Programmable Parameters

To check the DDC programmable parameters, press the SELECT button until you see the desired

program item. The current setting will be displayed after a short delay. To modify the parameter

setting, press and hold the SET button until the desired setting is displayed. Releasing and pressing the

SET button again will move the setting in the opposite direction.

The parameter settings that need to be checked and/or set are as follows in the order in which they will

be displayed:

CSP - Cooling Set Point - If a system has more than one chiller stage, set the CSP for stage #1 to 48°F (9°C), #2
to 50°F (10°C), #3 to 52°F (11°C), #4 to 54°F (12°C), and #5 to 56°F (13°C). As the return water

temperature decreases (in cool mode) the chillers will cycle off as the set point temperatures are
reached and cycle on when the temperature 1s 2°F (1.1°C) above the set point.

HSP - Heating Set Point - If a system has more than one chiller stage, set the HSP for stage #1 to 110°F (43°C),
set #2 to 108°F (42°C), #3 to 106°F (41°C), #4 to 104°F (40°C), and #5 to 102°F (39°C). As the return
water temperature increases (in heat mode) the chillers will cycle off as the set point temperatures are
reached and cycle on when the temperature is 2°F (1.1°C) below the set point.

dl — Staging Delay — If a system has more than one chiller stage, set the staging delay for chiller #1 to 30
seconds, set chiller #2 to 60 seconds, #3 to 90, #4 to 120, and #5 to 150. The compressors will now
come on at 30-second intervals.

°F or °C — Temperature Units — Select the appropriate temperature units.

re or EH — Reverse Cycle or Electric Heat — If the system is equipped with the electric heat option, select EH
for this parameter.

cle or con — Cycled or Continuous seawater pump operation — Select the desired seawater pump operation,
either cycled on demand with the compressors or on continuously whenever the chiller breaker power is
turned on. If set to “cle” the pump will come on 10 seconds before the compressor and cycle off 10
seconds after the compressor shuts down.

LPE or LPd — Low Pressure Freon detection enabled or disabled — If the system is equipped with a low
pressure switch, this parameter must be set to LPE (enabled).

AC — AC line voltage monitor — AC line voltage is displayed. Only authorized service personnel should adjust
this parameter, if necessary.

30
Fault Display Codes (see also Trouble-Shooting Guidelines)

HiP System goes off on High Pressure, lockout will occur after four faults, reset with system switch.
LoP System goes off on Low Pressure, lockout will occur after four faults, reset with system switch.
FLO Flow switch is open indicating inadequate chilled water flow through manifold.

FrE Freeze Stat fault, supply water temperature is colder than 38°F (3°C).

Sen Return Water Sensor has failed.

HiL High Limit Switch fault, supply water temperature is hotter than 125°F (52°C).

FSn_ Supply Water Sensor has failed.

LAC Low AC voltage (less than 85 for 115VAC, and less than 170 for 230VAC).

See the Trouble-Shooting Guidelines section for more information.

Using the Bimini Jumpers for Trouble-Shooting

WARNING: SWITCH MAIN POWER OFF BEFORE OPENING THE ELECTRICAL BOX!

The Bimini jumpers can be used to force a system output on for trouble-shooting or emergency
operation. These jumpers override all fault codes. The system should not be left unattended when
any of the system outputs are forced on.

The jumpers are labeled as follows:
“COMP” = compressor

“CWP” = circulation water pump
“SWP” = seawater pump

“VLV” = reversing valve

Sequencing the Compressors

In normal operation of a multi-stage system, the #1 compressor is always first on and last off, thereby
logging more hours of run time than any of the other compressors. In order to average out the run time
for all compressors over the life of the system, it is recommended to rotate the sequence of the lead
compressor every six months. This can be done by resetting the cooling and heating set points and
staging delays on each unit’s DDC. Before starting, label each compressor with its new designated
number; the current DDC #1 takes last place, #2 becomes #1, #3 becomes #2, etc. After labeling is
complete and main power has been disconnected, reset the “CSP”, “HSP” & “dl” programmable
parameters per specifications in Section 3.03.

IMPORTANT. If the pumps are connected directly to the lead compressor’s DDC (i.e., if there are no
PRPs) then the pump wires must be moved to the new #1 DDC.

NOTICE: Re-sequencing the compressors is unnecessary if the systems is controlled by the optional
CWMC (Chilled Water Master Control).

31
START-UP OF THE SYSTEM

The following procedure should be followed when starting the chilled water system. With the
installation complete and the circulation circuit filled and purged of air:
1. Open the sea cock valve to the seawater system.
Open all manifold and air handler valves, if installed.
Verify the flow switch is in the NO (Normally Open) position.
Tum on all the system circuit breakers; chiller, pumps and air handlers.
Open all the air handler water valves (if applicable) by adjusting their respective controllers.
(Refer to air handler control manual.)
Set desired cabin temperatures at air handler controls.
Turn all chillers on (COOL or HEAT) at the system control switches.
Check for a steady, solid stream of water from the overboard discharge.
9. Verify that there is good airflow from each air handler.
NOTE: Ina multiple unit system, never run one chiller in cool while running another one in heat.

MAINTENANCE

we wWN

enn

Chilled water systems require basic minimal maintenance to insure proper operation and long term
reliability. Routine maintenance should be performed at frequent intervals. These intervals - daily,
weekly, monthly - will vary from vessel to vessel due to its location and usage. Extended maintenance
should be performed at semi-annual or annual intervals. Again, this will vary. Winterization of a
system may be required for vessels stored or operating in extremely cold climates. As these items are
performed over time, each vessel will develop its own “Maintenance Schedule”.

ROUTINE MAINTENANCE

Flow Switches: An annual check to confirm proper actuation/deactuation of the flow switches is
recommended. While the chiller is running, turn off the chilled water pump. The chiller should shut
down within seconds.

The seawater strainers and thru-hull fittings must be inspected and cleaned regularly to provide
sufficient seawater flow through the chiller’s condenser coil. Obstructed seawater flow will cause
compressors to operate at higher pressures, temperatures and amperages causing excessive wear on
internal compressor components and possible nuisance tripping on the pressure switches.
e Strainer baskets should be emptied and inspected for marine growth on the basket wall. This
should be removed prior to reinstallation.
e Any silt, sand or marine debris should be removed from the strainer housing.

The chilled water circulation circuit must be filled completely with water. Air in the circuit will inhibit
performance and cause possible nuisance tripping of the flow switches. Return water pressure should
be approximately 12psig while in cool mode and when the system is off. Return water pressure may
get as high as 20psig in heat mode due to water expansion. Discharge water pressure should be 25-30
psig while the system is running. Systems without gauges must rely on lack of cooling or heating from
the air handlers, or audible noise in the pipes to determine that air exists in the circuit. Note:
Continual recurrence of air in the system, or pressure loss, is a sign of a water leak in the circuit.

32
Return air filters for each air handler must be inspected and cleaned regularly to provide sufficient air
flow through each unit. Obstructed air flow will cause poor performance of an air handler, resulting in
reduced cooling or heating capacity.
e Many filters are located on the back of the return air grille(s) or openings(s). Access the filter
through the existing cabinetry or by removing part, or all, of the grille. Remove the filter and
vacuum or wash it to remove particles, lint, etc. Do not use soaps or solvents when washing.

Electrical connections should be inspected and tightened as needed. Heat and vibration can cause
connectors to loosen, causing poor contact and voltage drop or arcing. This can cause components to
operate poorly, nuisance trip, or prematurely fail. To service electrical components:
e Disconnect main power supply before repairing or replacing components or wires.
e Tighten all loose connections at terminal strip and components (contactors, timers, relays, etc.).
e Inspect connectors for burn marks, frayed wires, etc. If any are found, the connector or
connection should be repaired/replaced.
e Voltage to the equipment should be checked with a meter periodically to insure a proper power
supply. Compressors, pumps, fans, etc. are electrically rated with a +10% value for voltage.

It is recommended that systems be operated regularly. Vessels not in use should have their chillers and
air handlers cycled on 30-60 minutes once a month. Vessels in use should cycle on limited-use
components in similar intervals to those above. Systems should also be cycled to their reverse mode
(cool to heat, heat to cool). This helps to maintain pump seals and internal mechanical contacts, while
reducing the fouling effect of marine growth in the seawater circuit.

EXTENDED MAINTENANCE

Condenser coils and seawater hoses below the waterline can become fouled over a period of time due
to marine growth and/or scale build-up inside the coils. This both obstructs water flow and prohibits
proper heat transfer, causing continuous compressor operation with high pressures, temperatures and
amperages.
e Condenser coils and seawater hoses can be flushed and cleaned by connecting a closed loop
system and circulating a solution designed as a scale dissolver. See the “Seawater Condensing
Coil Cleaning Procedure” in this manual.
e Most authorized servicing dealers or large boatyards can provide this service.

The seawater pump housing and impeller shroud should be checked for wear. Seals should be checked
and lubricated according to each pump manufacturers recommendations. Worn or pitted impellers
should be replaced. Any signs of galvanic corrosion should be addressed immediately.

If the capacity of your air conditioning system is greater than or equal to 24,000 BTU/hr, the seawater
pump is most likely air cooled and will need occasional oiling. See manufacturer’s labeling on the
pump for maintenance instructions.

Seawater pump manufacturer’s maintenance recommendations:

Cleaning: Remove oil, dust, dirt, water and chemicals from exterior of motor and pump. Keep motor
air inlet and outlet open. Blow out interior of open motors with clean compressed air at low
pressure. Regularly drain moisture from TEFC motors.

Labeled Motors: It is imperative for repair of a motor with Underwriters’ Laboratories label that
original clearances be held: that all plugs, screws and other hardware be fastened securely, and that

33
parts replaced be exact duplicates or approved equals. Violation of any of the above invalidates

Underwriters’ label.

Lubrication: Pumps should require no maintenance, other than the motor bearings, according to the
following instruction:

e Double Shielded: When double shielded prelubricated bearings are furnished no lubrication is
required for the life of the bearings. Inspect bearings periodically to determine the condition of
the grease and replace the bearings if necessary.

e Single Shielded w/Grease Fittings: When single shield bearings are furnished, periodic
inspection, cleaning and relubrication is required. See motor manufacturer’s specific
instructions.

Air handler motorized water valves should be inspected for corrosion that may bind the gear.
e With the air handler off, access the water valve and remove the rubber boot and the aluminum
motor case. If rubber boot is missing, call the dealer and order MAS part number 331942.
e Inspect the gears and remove any build-up on the motor gear and/or the valve gear.
e Dry thoroughly and lubricate with a silicon spray or equivalent.
e Manually operate the gear mechanism using the lever on the top of the valve before reassembly.

Air handler condensate drain pans should be inspected for proper drainage.

e Access each air handler and visually inspect the drain pan for standing water. If any significant
water is present, check the condensate drain lines for improper installation (upward loops above
the pan, kinked lines, etc.). Check the drain connection to the pan for any obstructions.

e If no standing water is present, pour a quart of fresh water into the pan. Make sure it drains
immediately. If not, check as above.

All control probes and sensors should be inspected for proper location and fastening. Improperly
located and/or secured probes will provide erroneous readings, causing improper operation.

e Inspect all temperature probes and sensors on the chilled water unit.

e Those inserted into probe well in the circulation circuit should be inserted all the way into the
well, filled with a thermal mastic for efficient heat transfer, and insulated on the end to hold the
probe in place and prohibit condensation.

e Those externally fastened to coils, pipes, etc. should be securely fastened with thermal mastic
between the contact surfaces and insulated when necessary to provide accurate readings.

e Check all sensors at each air handler for proper location. Water sensors should be securely
fastened and insulated on the supply connection (water inlet) of the air handler. If the built in
air sensor on the controller display panel is not utilized, the remote air sensors should be located
in the return air stream as close to the cabin area as possible without being in contact with any
other hot or cold surface. All sensors should be securely fastened.

Any rust or corrosion present should be remedied immediately. Rusting of components may be caused
by exposed metal or the presence of water due to condensation from the chilled water circuit. Bare
metal should be cleaned, primed and coated. Sources of condensation should be located and properly
sealed. If corrosion is present, the source of the corrosion, either galvanic or chemical, should be
determined and then should be dealt with in the appropriate manner.

See “Sequencing the Compressors” in the DDC section of this manual for long term compressor
maintenance.

34
WINTERIZATION AND THE USE OF GLYCOL

Winterization of the chilled water circulation circuit is necessary for vessels stored in extremely cold
climates. A glycol solution should be introduced into the circulation circuit to protect pipes and hoses
from freezing and bursting. The percentage of glycol should be selected based on the following
definitions of freeze protection and burst protection. Freeze protection should be provided for vessels
that must remain operational in cold weather, or where cold weather start-ups may be required. Choose
a solution that will prevent the formation of ice crystals at 5°F below the lowest anticipated system
temperature. Burst protection should be provided for vessels that do not operate during the winter and
cold weather start-up will not be required. The glycol solution will prevent bursting but not necessarily
be high enough to maintain the fluid in a pumpable state.

The following table provides freeze and burst protection temperatures for propylene glycol mixtures:

| Volume Percent Glycol Concentration Required* |

Minimum Ambient Propylene Glycol Propylene Glycol
Temp (F/C) For Freeze For Burst Protection
Protection

20/-6.7 18 12
10/-12.2 29 20

0/-18 36 24
-10/-23 42 28
-20/-29 46 30
-30/-34 50 33
-40/-40 54 35
-50/-46 57 35
-60/-51 60 35

*Contact manufacturer to verify that data is consistent with glycol to be used.

The following procedures are recommended for winterizing:

1. Shut off the fresh water fill valve to isolate the chilled water loop.

2. Select the highest air handler with easy access and purge excess water pressure from the system at
the air bleeder port. The water can be purged into a container or into the condensation pan of the
air handler as long as the glycol solution is captured and not discharged overboard.

3. Put the bleeder line into a container of pre-mixed glycol solution.

4. Open an air bleeder port on an air handler located at the lowest point in the system. The water
may be bled into a container or directly into the condensation pan of the air handler as long as the
glycol solution is captured and not discharged overboard. When the glycol solution has been
siphoned into the water circuit, close all bleeder ports.

Purge the system of any air (see “Filling and Purging the Circulation Circuit”).

Start the circulation pump to distribute the glycol solution throughout the chilled water circuit.

7. Ifthe system is being winterized for burst protection it is necessary to have air pockets in each of
the air handlers to provide room for expansion of the glycol as the solution changes phase from
liquid to solid. In this case, do not purge the air from the system.

nw

Warning: For the purpose of protecting the environment, collect and discard discharged glycol
solution in accordance with federal, state and/or local regulations.

DE-WINTERIZING

35
To prepare the vessel for use in warmer temperatures, introduce a pre-mixed solution of no more than
15% glycol using the same procedure outlined above for winterizing.

SEAWATER CONDENSER COIL CLEANING PROCEDURE

1. With the system turned off at the circuit breaker on the ships panel, disconnect the inlet and outlet
connections of the condenser coil manifolds.

2. Use chemical resistant hoses (MAS white 5/8” I.D.) and adapter connections to connect the inlet
and outlet of the manifold to a chemical resistant, submersible pump (MAS PML-500 pump, etc.).

3. Place the pump into a container filled with a 3-5% solution of muriatic or hydrochloric acid and
fresh water. Use as large of a container as possible to hold the solution (5-25 gal.). Premixed, over
the counter solutions can be used, or mix water proportionately with acid (muriatic or
hydrochloric). Caution: avoid spilling or splashing the solution. Follow all warnings and
recommendations given by the manufacturer of any acids or pre-mixed solutions.

4. Power the pump and circulate the solution through the manifold for 15-45 minutes depending upon
the size of the coils and the extent of the contamination. Visual inspection of the solution in the
container should indicate when contamination removal has stopped.

5. Circulate fresh water through the coil to flush any residual acid from the system.

6. Restart the system and check operational parameters (pressures, amperage, etc.) to ensure thorough
cleaning has taken place. Additional cleaning(s) may be necessary with extreme contamination.

Warning: For the purpose of protecting the environment, dispose of any contaminated acid solutions
in accordance with federal, state and/or local regulations.

36
TROUBLE-SHOOTING GUIDELINES

FAULT

FLO

LoP

HiP

FrE

Hil

Sen
FSn

LAC

POSSIBLE REASON

Flow switch is open due to low
or no chilled water flow.

Low pressure switch open:
refrigerant pressure is below
35psig (will reset at 6Opsig).
This has a nine-minute shut
down delay.

High pressure switch open:
discharge pressure above

425psig (will reset at 200psig).

Freeze stat open: chilled water
loop is below 38°F.

High limit switch is open:
chilled water loop is above
125°F.

Retum water sensor has failed.
Supply water sensor has failed.

Low AC voltage (<95 for
11SVAC or <175 for 230VAC).

CORRECTION

¥ Pump or system may be air-locked: open fresh water
fill valve and bleed system.

¥ Circuit breaker for pump turned off: turn on circuit
breaker.

¥ Check that all shut-off valves are open.

¥ Flow switch reed switch should be set to “NO”
(Normally Open, factory setting).

¥ Flow switch failure: replace switch.

v Fix leaks or restrictions. Attach refrigerant gauges
and check charge. When pressure rises above
60psig, start chiller.

¥ Check that chilled water is at correct glycol to water
ratio, ensure that vessel has been de-winterized.

High pressures may indicate lack of condenser cooling
water: check seawater strainer for blockage, verify
seawater flow, condenser coils may need cleaning.

¥ Check DDC for proper Cooling Set Point (CSP)
settings.

¥ Chilled water pressure is low: check pressure gauge
& add water (repair leaks if necessary).

¥ Poor chilled water circulation: check for restriction
or resize pump.

¥ Check sensor placement and wiring.

¥ Check that chilled water is at correct glycol to water
ratio, ensure that vessel has been de-winterized.

¥ Check DDC for proper Heating Set Point (HSP)
settings.

¥ Chilled water pressure is low: check pressure gauge
& add water (repair leaks if necessary).

¥ Poor chilled water circulation: check for restriction
or resize pump.

¥ Pump or system may be air-locked: open fresh water
fill valve and bleed system.

¥ Check sensor placement and wiring.

Replace sensor.
Replace sensor.

Check power supply voltage.

37

TROUBLE-SHOOTING GUIDELINES

FAULT

System will not start.
No power to chiller.

System starts but
trips circuit breaker.

System starts but
stops after a few
minutes.

POSSIBLE REASON

Circuit Breaker at ship’s panel is
off.

Miswiring or bad connection at
terminal strip in electrical box.

Breaker is undersized.

Not maintaining sufficient AC
power on start-up.

Electrical short.

Loose or corroded electrical
connections.

Compressor start components are
faulty.

Inadequate condenser

performance leading to high
discharge pressure.

System cycled on freeze stat.

CORRECTION

Tum on breaker(s) and monitor operation.

Check wiring diagram and correct if
inconsistent or repair bad connection.

Verify breaker size against specifications on
chiller data plate.

Monitor voltage drop during start-up. Ifa
significant drop occurs, check main wiring
connections. Access larger power source if
necessary.

With power off, check between ground, L1,
L2, and if applicable L3 for continuity.
Check components for continuity between
same. Correct or replace components
where necessary.

Check and repair as necessary.

With wires removed, check each
component for continuity or short.

Check for seawater flow. Service pump or
clean strainer or condenser coils as
necessary.

Insufficient water in chilled water loop, see
“Filling & Purging the Circulation Circuit”
section of this manual.

Temperature set point too low, see
“Thermostat Set Points” section of this
manual.

Contactor: To check a 230V coil on a contactor you should check to see if there is proper voltage to
both sides of the coil, if there is correct voltage and the contactor is not pulled in, the contactor could
be faulty. If there is not voltage to both sides of the contactor then something else is open in the

control circuit.

38

MANUFACTURERS LIMITED WARRANTY AGREEMENT

The following warranty is extended to cover products manufactured or supplied by Marine Air
Systems Inc., and is subject to qualifications indicated. Marine Air Systems warrants for the periods
set forth below that products manufactured or supplied by it will be free from defects in workmanship
and material, provided such products are installed, operated and maintained in accordance with Marine
Air Systems’ written instruction.

ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ARE LIMITED TO THE TERMS AND PERIODS OF WARRANTY
SET FORTH BELOW AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY AND ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUDED.

Components comprising a complete system on a new installation are warranted for a period of one (1)
year from the date of installation, but not to exceed two (2) years from the date of manufacture at the
Marine Air Systems factory. Marine Air Systems will pay labor and travel costs as outlined in its
Schedule of Limited Warranty Allowances for removal and re-installation of such components for a
period of one (1) year from the date of installation, but not to exceed two (2) years from the date of
manufacture at Marine Air Systems factory. OEM installed equipment warranties begin with the
commission date of a new vessel. Costs which exceed the schedule of limited warranty allowances,
i.c., parts, labor, limited travel allowance, removal and re-installation time are the responsibility of the
customer.

Marine Air Systems Inc. will repair or replace, at its option, components found to be defective due
to faulty materials or workmanship, when such components, examined by an authorized service dealer
or a factory service representative, are found to have a defect for which the company is responsible.
Replacement components are warranted for the duration of the remaining warranty period in effect on
the original component.

This limited warranty is extended in lieu of all other warranties, agreements or obligations, expressed
or implied, concerning Marine Air Systems’ components. This limited warranty is extended only to the
original purchaser and is not transferable. This limited warranty shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Florida and gives the original first end user definite legal nghts.

This limited warranty does not cover damages incidental and or consequential to the failure of Marine
Air Systems’ equipment including but not limited to; normal wear, accident, misuse, abuse, negligence
or improper installation, lack of reasonable and necessary maintenance, alteration, civil disturbance or
act of God.

No person or dealer is authorized to extend any other warranties or to assume any other liabilities on
Marine Air Systems’ behalf, unless authorized in writing by an officer of Marine Air Systems.

39
SYSTEM SPECIFIC SETTINGS

COMPONENT | SETTING (OR OTHER SPECS)

NOTES

40

MAINTENANCE RECORD

DATE |SERVICE PERFORMED
SEQUENCING THE COMPRESSORS
Date |Sequence Rotation | Comments

Example

14, 291, 3-52, 43

Switched pump wires from original #1 to new #1 (no PRP).

Al

DISTRIBUTOR LISTING

Alabama
Arkansas
Colorado
Kansas
Louisiana
Mississippi
Missouri
Nevada
New Mexico
Oklahoma
Texas

Utah

Georgia

North Florida
North Carolina
South Carolina
Tennessee

Ifinois
Indiana
lowa
Kentucky
Michigan
Minnesota
N. Dakota
Ohio

S. Dakota
Wisconsin

Idaho
Montana
Oregon
Washington
Wyoming

INTERNATIONAL

AER Marine Supply Delaware

2301 Nasa Road One Maryland

Seabrook, TX 77586 Pennsylvania

Contact: Richard S. Miller Virginia

Tel: (800) 767-7606

(281) 474-3276

Fax: (281) 474-2714

E-mail: rsmiller@aersupply.com
New York
New Jersey

Beard Marine Savannah

3101 River Drive

Savannah, GA 31404

Contact: Lynn Stork

Tel: (800) 286-2674

(912) 356-5222

Fax: (912) 692-1006

E-mail: beardsav @ aol.com Connecticut

Website: www.beardmarine.com Maine
Massachusetts

New Hamphsire

Midwest Marine Supply Rhode Island

24300 Jefferson Avenue Vermont

St. Clair Shores, MI 48080

Contact: Dan Gruninger

Tel: (586) 778-8950

Fax: (586) 778-6108
Arizona
California
Hawaii
Mexico

American Marine Contractors
8313 46" Place West

Mukilteo, WA 98275

Contact: Gene Lawing

Tel: (206) 660-2240

Fax: (425) 740-0246

E-mail: glawing @ earthlink.net

Please contact us for international dealers & distributors.

Ocean Options - Mid Atlantic
2830 Solomons Island Road
Edgewater, MD 21037
Contact: Mike Bowden
Tel: (800) 400-8043

(410) 266-8033
Fax: (410) 841-2461
E-mail: Sales @ oceanoptions.com
Website: www.oceanoptions.com

Marine Specialists

2231 5" Avenue, Unit 17
Ronkonkoma, NY 11779

Contact: Mike Budney

Tel: (631) 580-0545

Fax: (631) 580-0551

E-mail: Sales @marinespecialists.com
Website: www.marinespecialists.com

Ocean Options

95 Riverside Drive

Tiverton, RI 02878

Contact: Mike Bowden

Tel: (401) 624-7334

Fax: (401) 624-8050

E-mail: Sales @ oceanoptions.com
Website: www.oceanoptions.com

Southern California Marine
Enterprises

1214 Rosecrans Street

San Diego, CA 92106

Tel: (888) 657-1606

Fax: (619) 226-0496

E-mail: sales @southerncalmarine.com
Website: www.southerncalmarine.com
@ Dometic izes

Dometic Corporation
Environmental Systems

2000 N. Andrews Ave. Ext. + Pompano Beach, FL 33069-1497 USA
Phone: 954-973-2477 + Facsimile: 954-979-4414

Fleets Industrial Estate + 26 Willis Way + Poole, Dorset BH15 3SU, England
Phone: +44(0)870 3306101 + Facsimile: +44(0)870 3306102

Website: www.marineair.com + Email: sales@marineair.com

@ Dometic The Sign of Comfort

L-2164
